All That Remains
by SkyleafAlchemist19

Link: https://www.fanfiction.net/s/9357902/1/All-That-Remains


********** Page 1 **********

Disclaimer: I do not own Lord of the Rings.LOTRLOTRLOTRAll That Remainsby: SkyleafAlchemist19Rated: T for violence and some curse words.Summary: Five year-old Legolas is captured by orcs and taken to Dol Guldur, where he is given to an assassin to be trained. The Nazgûl underestimated their assassin's new-found hatred of the Enemy however. Their plan backfires when a deadly but good Legolas escapes, hiding from the kin who think him dead and killing orcs from the shadows...Time-line: Pre-LOTR onward, AU. Eventually becomes extremely AU.Main Characters: Legolas, Thranduil, Elrond, Elladan, Elrohir, Glorfindel, Erestor, others.Eventual Main Characters: Aragorn. (You'll just have to wait and see about the others. Hint: Dwarves, Hobbits, and some Men) :)Warnings: AU. Some changes in Middle-earth history. Large time skips leading up to the main plot.Relationships: Gen, some OC/OC. I have no pairings planned at the moment.Translations:Ada: Daddy/DadNana: Mommy/MomOriginal Character Guide: Royal Family of MirkwoodLuineth: Queen of Mirkwood, Thranduil's wife, Legolas's motherAglar: Thranduil and Luineth's oldest son, Crown Prince of MirkwoodHannel: Thranduil and Luineth's oldest daughter, second childMegilag: Second son, third childBarhad: Third son, older twin, fourth childBereneth: Second daughter, younger twin, fifth childFael: Fourth son, sixth child**Note: Legolas is 2,100 years younger than FaelLOTRLOTRLOTRPrologue: TakenThird Age 2531. (480 years ago...)The forest was silent. Not a whisper of wind rustled the boughs of the sturdy branches above. Not a single insect buzzed or drifted between the bright flowers that grew at the bases of the trees. No birds sang sweet notes to the sky, filling the void with their song. No animals called to each other or rustled through the undergrowth. It was as if all of nature was unwilling to break the heavy silence that lay heavily on the forest. And so the darkening woods were silent.Then, there was a scream.The scream ripped through the silent air like a sharp knife cutting through flesh, savagely breaking the heavy silence. The terrible wail was worse than the sound of a dying animal, filled with uncomprehending pain and grief. The heartbreaking animal-like screams changed slowly, transforming into desperate words."Luineth! Luineth!" a voice sobbed. "Luineth, my love, please wake!"In the middle of the forest was a battlefield. Elven and orc bodies were strewn across the path, with the slain corpses of horses mingling with those of their masters. Discarded swords and arrows peppered the ground and surrounding trees, left where they had fallen. A small group of five elves were huddled silently in the center of the massacre, standing in a circle around two fallen shapes. One was holding the other in a tight embrace, sobbing as he rocked her back and forth. The other, the one being held, was unmoving.Thranduil, King of Mirkwood, sat beneath the silent trees, sobbing into the blood-covered silver hair of his wife. A bloody dagger was clutched in her right hand, the black blood on the blade contrasting sharply with the wound on her chest. Silver-blue eyes stared sightlessly at the sky, filled with pain and fear even in death. Luineth, Queen of Mirkwood, was dead.Just that morning, Luineth had decided to take a ride out in the forest, Thranduil and their youngest at her side. Before the party could depart however, one of the King's advisers had intercepted him with an urgent letter that required his immediate attention. While Thranduil had been trying to gracefully excuse himself from the adviser's presence, Luineth had gone ahead, riding out with some guards into the forest. Thranduil had been able to escape the adviser five minutes later. And five minutes made all the difference. A simple ride outside the palace had turned into a fatal trap as the Queen and her guards were attacked by orcs out in the forest. Thranduil's party had arrived in time to see Luineth fall to an orc's blade. When Thranduil reached his wife, ignoring the orc who fled the moment he saw the King, she was already dead.The King's Guards did not move or speak as their Lord whispered and pleaded with his wife to wake up, to come back to him. They could see him shattering, weakening before their very eyes. They dared not interrupt, their own hearts breaking at the sight of their beloved Queen. They could not even find the will to bury or check their deceased comrades, overcome by the grief of their King. So they merely stood in a protective circle around him, faces blank and minds numb. If another group of orcs happened upon the elves, they would have found little fight in them.The King's begging trailed into nothingness, replaced by wordless whimpers and sobs. Thranduil clung to his dead wife like one clinging to a lifeline, cheek resting on her bloody hair. He could feel her body cooling in his arms, the warmth fleeing with the life that had resided within it.Finally, after almost a half hour of silence and numbness, Thranduil looked up. The King's blue eyes were wild, terror and grief warring for dominance within him. His pale lips moved in slow movements, the cause of his desperate break from mindless grief coming out in the form of a name."Legolas." At the sound of the name, the warriors shifted, looking at their King. "Where's my son?" Thranduil croaked, looking around the bloody clearing. "Where is Legolas? WHERE IS HE?"One by one, expressions of horror replacing the blank masks as they realized the reason for their King's distress. Legolas, the five year-old Prince and Thranduil's youngest child, had gone out riding with the Queen and her guards that fateful morning. And he was nowhere to be found. There was no small body among the slain elven warriors and hulking masses of dead orcs. Which only left one possibility. Thranduil snapped into action, the thoughts of his young son clearing his mind. For the moment anyway."Thimben, Aduial! Return to the castle and get our best trackers. You must follow the orcs' trail!"The two named warriors hesitated, unwilling to leave their King with so little protection."Go!" Thranduil ordered and the warriors rode away at top speed. The King turned back to his wife, breathing harsh, and spoke to her softly, gently brushing her hair out of her face. "We'll find him. We'll find him, my love. They won't have him."LOTRLOTRLOTRMany leagues away, near the edge of the Mirkwood forest, a horde of orcs ran swiftly through the forest, footsteps sounding like thunder in a storm. Around them, the trees grew steadily darker as they grew closer to their destination: Dol Guldur. The band of orcs moved at a steady, rhythmic pace, looking like an army of demons with their black skin and cruel yellow eyes. In the sea of black a tiny spot of pale gold and white could be seen.Legolas, the youngest Prince of Mirkwood, was afraid. He had been out riding with his mother when the band of scary monsters had attacked their guards, killing three of them before the other elves could react. Legolas did not know how the orcs had sneaked up on the guards. His second big brother, Megilag, always said that the trees would warn the Wood Elves if any enemies were nearby. Yet the guards had been taken completely by surprise. Legolas remembered his mother covering his eyes as screams ripped through the air around them."Run, my Queen!" one of the guards had shouted before being cut down.And so Luineth had spurred their horse, only to have the white stallion shot down by a black arrow. Legolas and the Queen had been thrown free of the falling horse, Luineth rising to her feet immediately in defense as the orcs— so many orcs— charged them. The orcs had quickly overwhelmed her— she was no warrior—, pushing easily past the Queen's defense and grabbing Legolas. The Prince had screamed for his mother as rough hands pulled him out of safety, whisking him away from the battle faster than he could blink. Rushed away by the eager orcs, he did not see his mother fall.Legolas had screamed for hours, beating the orc's shoulder with tiny fists and getting nothing but a harsh shake for his efforts. If Legolas was older he would have wondered why the orcs did not threaten him for making noise. Instead, they merely focused on running, caring more about putting distance between them and the elves than the quietness of their captive. Eventually the Prince quieted, going limp over his captor's shoulder as the hours passed.Legolas did not know what to do. His older brothers and Bereneth had told him stories about their encounters with orcs, stories that scared Legolas and made Nana scold them. orcs were evil, mean creatures, Legolas knew, ones who liked to kill and hurt elves. The young Prince was afraid of what the orcs wanted with him, especially since his family would always look scared and sad whenever he asked what happened to elves that orcs captured. He just knew that they never came back.Ada will come after me when Nana tells him what happened. Legolas thought. So will Aglar and Hannel and Megilag and Barhad and Bereneth and Fael. They'll rescue me.Yet as the hours went on and no help came, the young elfling grew worried. The trees around him were steadily growing darker, their angry murmurs reaching his young ears and making him shiver. The trees did not like him. He did not know why they hissed and spat at him but they did, cringing away from his inner light. Nervous among their anger, Legolas tried to shrink in on himself, which was impossible while hanging over an orc's shoulder."Stop squirming, tree-rat!" the orc carrying him snarled, making the Prince freeze instantly.He managed to stay perfectly still for a couple minutes, but remaining like that quickly grew difficult. Legolas wiggled in an attempt to get more comfortable."I said keep still!" the orc snapped, giving the elfling a harsh shake.Legolas gave a surprised yelp as his chin slammed into the orc's armor. Instantly, the orc's arm was grabbed by another, a threatening growl emerging from his throat."Careful with that. The Witch-King wants him unharmed." the second orc growled, cuffing the first with an armored fist.The orc carrying Legolas hissed in pain, giving the other a hate-filled glare. "The little twit was trying to break free! I was just discouraging him."The second orc looked unconvinced. "Of course you were." he sneered. "I didn't know you were so incompetent that you can't keep hold of a tiny tree-rat!"The offended orc gave an enraged snarl and lunged for the second, fist connecting with the other's chin. Legolas gave a shriek as the second orc retaliated, bowling his carrier over and sending all three of them to the ground. The Elf Prince was thrown free of the tussling orcs, cringing as the others continued to march around him and a large, booted foot barely missed his head. Before he could be trampled, the other orcs halted, focusing on the fight. Shouts of encouragement for the two brawlers rippled through the ranks, until the entire group was calling bets on the winner.Legolas quickly realized that no attention was on him. Careful to keep low to the ground and not touch anyone he passed, the small Prince scurried through the legs of the surrounding orcs. None noticed him as he hurried through their ranks as fast as he dared. As shouts, grunts, and screams came from the two fighters, the orcs grew even more frenzied, crazed by blood-lust. Legolas whimpered and gasped as spear-butts slammed down in front of him and large feet stomped in an erratic rhythm. Miraculously, he made it to the edge of the mass, taking a single step out of the circle of orcs braying for blood. A large hand grabbed his hair, forcing a scream of pain from the elfling."Where do you think you're going?" the orc who held him growled. He turned angry yellow eyes on the crowd of spectators and bellowed. "At attention you stinking half-wits!"The orcs flinched or jumped, attention swiftly diverted, and scurried back into formation, purposely forming up around the Prince and his captor. Form Legolas's height, it seemed like the giant orcs were blocking out the sun with their dark skin and armor. The Prince's heart sank as his chance at freedom was literally blocked off. The orc that held him strode forward with long strides, ignoring the elfling's pained gasps as he struggled to keep pace so that his hair would not be pulled. The orc released him, turning his attention to the two brawling orcs that stood rigidly at attention. Without a word of warning the orc— the Captain of the horde— punched them both in the gut. Both orcs bent over double, wheezing and gasping for breath."Bloody idiots!" the orc Captain snarled. "Your little scuffle almost let the tree-rat get away!""But he was—" the orc who had been carrying Legolas began.The Captain slapped his subordinate across the face, two of the lackey's yellowed teeth ripping free of his gums. The orc spat the teeth on the ground but did not speak again."Let's get moving!" the orc Captain shouted, planning to punish the two more thoroughly later. "The adult tree-rats will be here soon."He turned to Legolas but the elfling stepped back, wondering if he could stall for time. Just long enough for his father or the warriors to get there. The little Prince did not know that the orc Captain had left several false trails behind him, good enough to confuse any trackers of Mirkwood. By the time the warriors fought off the spiders they would encounter and circled back to find the real trail, the orcs would be long gone."My Nana will tell my Ada you took me and he'll come rescue me." Legolas said bravely, unaware that no help would be coming any time soon.Around him, the orcs laughed. Legolas looked at them all in confusion. The large orc leaned down in front of him, making the elfling recoil from his horrid breath."Your mother's dead, tree-rat." the orc captain sneered.Legolas's mouth snapped shut and he stared at the orc mutely. Although he did not fully understand death, he knew what it was. When he was the human equivalent of a three year-old, the young Prince had owned a pet rabbit named Floppy. One day, the curious bunny had escaped the palace into the stables, and got trampled by a startled horse. Legolas had found the animal and gone running into the palace, bursting into tears as he begged the first person he met— Hannel— to make Floppy better. Hannel had gently taken the dead rabbit from her brother and cradled in her arms, quietly explaining that Floppy had been badly injured, so injured that his spirit had moved on to eternal rest. That was the first time the Prince had heard of death.Legolas did not fully understand what "death" meant, but he did know that the person person who had died was not coming back. In other words, the orc had taken his mother away. The elfling stared unblinkingly at the orc with eyes that seemed to age rapidly, holding the cold anger of a much older and more vengeful elf. The orc froze as the silver-blue eyes pierced him, pinning him in place with an ancient power."I will kill you for hurting my Nana." the Prince vowed quietly, in a voice that matched his too-old eyes.The orc captain flinched and retreated to the front of the group, eager to get away from those terrifying eyes. Even as he was picked up and thrown over a shoulder once more, Legolas's gaze followed the orc, marking him in his mind. He would remember this conversation. He would remember the orc. And one day, the orc would pay for taking away his mother. The orc would pay with his life.LOTRLOTRLOTRThranduil sat in his throne room, shoulders hunched and head down with his golden hair falling into his face. His crown was crooked on his head and his skin was pale, eyes red-rimmed from tears and stress. The two guards standing on the inside of the doors shifted uncomfortably, never before having seen their King look so defeated. Thranduil did not bother trying to pretend to be strong and unmoved by his losses. Luineth's death and Legolas's current missing status had taken it's toll on the King. He was more vulnerable now than he had ever been, as if a breath of wind would make him shatter. Thranduil, who was always the image of confidence and strength, was a mere shadow of his former self, lost deep in his thoughts.His grief for his wife was a stain upon his soul, but his fear for his lost son was what overwhelmed the King, taking away his breath and will. Thranduil wanted nothing more than to be with the patrol— led by his eldest son, Aglar— that was searching for Legolas, but knew he would only hinder the search rather than help. He could feel the numbness of grief creeping up on him but refused to fall into it. He had to remain alert. He had to know his youngest son was all right before he crumbled.The rest of his family was nowhere to be found. Thranduil was not sure whether he should be grateful or upset. Aglar was with the patrol searching for his youngest sibling. His two daughters and third son— the even-tempered Hannel, fiery Bereneth, and her calm twin Barhad— were all in Lothlorien. The twins were there visiting Hannel and her husband, as they did every year since the eldest sister had decided to live in her husband's realm. The rest of Thranduil's children— stern Megilag and mischievous Fael— were in Rivendell visiting Elrond's sons.Normally Thranduil's thoughts would be filled with laughter as he imagined what pranks Fael and the devious twins would play on poor Glorfindel and Erestor, but now all his thoughts were dark with fear and grief. How would his children react when the messengers arrived with the news of their mother's death? Thranduil had not the heart to tell them of Legolas's capture.By the time they arrive in Mirkwood, little Greenleaf will be home, the father thought determinedly, forcing himself to believe his thoughts. He had to believe his youngest would be returned home, safe and sound. He had to.Legolas had been an unexpected surprise for the Royal Family of Mirkwood. It had been over two thousand years since the birth of their sixth child, Fael. Both Thranduil and Luineth were overjoyed when they discovered they would be adding one more member to the family. The Palace had gotten quieter since their first six children had grown into adults, all heading out into the world. They all still lived in the palace of course, but the noticeable absence of an elfling's laughter had saddened the parents' hearts.The youngest Prince's birth had not been an easy one. Luineth had gone into labor more than a month early, and the healer's had feared the baby would not survive. But he had, and ten hours later Thranduil found himself holding a tiny elfling with a tuft of blonde fuzz on his head. It was a blonde so pale it looked almost silver or white, a unique color not only among the Royal family but among all Silvan Elves as well. The rest of Legolas's siblings had gotten their parent's hair, be it Thranduil's gold or Luineth's silver locks.Legolas had looked so delicate and frail in his large hands. For the first time since the birth of Aglar, the Elvenking had felt that he was going to drop or break the tiny baby that relied so much on him. But then the babe's eyes had fluttered open exposing Thranduil to orbs of innocent silver-blue. Legolas was the only child to inherit his mother's unique silver-blue eyes. Looking back, Thranduil remembered the comfort he had felt when he gazed into the curious eyes of his youngest child."You are destined for great things, little one." he remembered saying. "My little Greenleaf."And so the King and Queen had named him Legolas, after the green leaves that flourished out in the spring. But now the green leaves of spring had been captured by the darkest of shadows. Thranduil shuddered once, shivering the sudden cold that came from within his heart.The creak of a moving hinge was like a cannon blast in the silence. The King's head snapped up and he rose to his feet, hope entering his gaze as his eldest son entered the room. Aglar closed the door firmly behind him before turning to face his father. Thranduil's sharp eyes instantly spotted the bloody strip of cloth on his son's forearm."What happened?" he asked his eldest, urgently striding forward to inspect the wound.Aglar did not resist as his father as the King took his arm, gently touching the area next to the small gash. "Spider attack. The orcs left a false trail into a Spider nest. No one was killed, but Heled was poisoned. The healers gave him the antidote though so he'll be all right." The Crown Prince avoided his father's intense blue eyes, unable to look him in the face and give him the news. "We circled back and tracked the orcs as far South as we dared, but the trail led into the Shadowed part of Mirkwood. The trees attacked Glamor and blocked the way so... we had to turn back. But the path we were following... I... I believe they have taken Legolas to Dol Guldur." Aglar choked on the words he uttered, feeling as if he were giving his little brother a death sentence. The fortress of Dol Guldur was currently housing the Nazgûl, including the dreaded Witch-King. If Legolas had indeed been taken to the dreaded fortress, it practically was a death sentence. Few elves went into Dol Guldur. None came out.The King's face crumpled and he turned away from his son, tears breaking free as he brought a shaking hand to cover his eyes. "What do they want with him?" Thranduil whispered, anguished. "Will they torture him until he becomes one of them? Will they kill him? Why? Why did they take my son?! Valar have mercy, he's just a child! My youngest child..."Aglar strode forward, hugging his father as his own grief and self-disappointment broke his emotionless mask. Thranduil's knees buckled and he sank to the ground, his son falling with him to their knees. The guards shut their eyes as their King and his Heir cried, their grief making the stone walls of the palace seem even colder.LOTRLOTRLOTRCiaran, Man of the North watched expressionlessly with cold hazel eyes as the band of orcs marched into Dol Guldur. While many men would have left the room or shied away at the sight of the monsters, the Dunedain did not move from the spot in which he stood, glaring at the orcs as they halted in front of him. Beside him stood a tall, black-cloaked figure which emitted a feeling of malice that could send ice into the hearts of the bravest souls. Ciaran was unaffected by the Witch-King's evil aura, ignoring like a person who was not an animal-lover ignored their friend's dog. He was not afraid of the Witch-King. Ciaran was not afraid of anything. Not anymore.Apathy and anger were the emotions most commonly found in the man, nothing else. This was an excellent mindset for a man of his profession. It would not do for an assassin to falter after all. The man was a unique one among the inhabitants of Dol Guldur, both because of his profession and his mix of powerlessness and power. He was a prisoner yet he was not, only remaining in the Hill of Sorcery because he felt like it at the current time.Ciaran was a wild card, not allied with the Enemy of the Free People but not aligning himself with the Free People either. He drifted, on neither side and both, depending on which side required his skills that week. Ciaran had no qualms about working for a party one day and killing them the next. He used to have morals and guidelines to his shadowy profession... but not anymore. He was no longer the man he had been before The Incident.Needless to say, Ciaran had been perfectly capable of defeating the orcs that the Nazgûl had sent to retrieve him, he just had not felt like it. Ciaran had been an assassin without a mission, wandering from place to place and finding no work or content anywhere. He was a neutral party, had been ever since The Incident. The Incident that had hardened his heart more than any training could. Some who knew of him called him the Beserker, a man who could kill hundreds in mere seconds. Others named him the Eternal Avenger, the man who would never find peace until he died. In the dark parts of the world he was known as the Touch of Death, the assassin who could kill a man just by brushing past him and leave no trace. Ciaran was a dangerous man indeed. Without loyalty, without love, and without morals......or at least, that was who he was right now.The assassin shifted slightly on his feet, watching the orcs walk by, a speck of light among the black shapes catching his eye. A single brown eyebrow rose as Ciaran spotted the source of the light. How had the orcs captured an elfling?The orc Captain strutted forward, arrogant and proud, before bowing to the Witch-King. "My Lord, we brought what you asked for. An elfling, alive and unspoiled."Another orc stepped forward, dropping the elfling at the Witch-King's feet. The pale-haired boy flinched as he stared up at the menacing Ringwraith. Then his chin jerked up, and he stared defiantly at the Nazgûl with determined silver-blue eyes."What is your name?" the Witch-King asked in his deep dark voice.The child remained silent. His orc kidnappers answered for him. "He is Legolas Thranduilion, the youngest Prince of Mirkwood." the orc Captain said."A Prince of Mirkwood?" the Witch-King murmured. "Excellent." Ciaran had a feeling that if he could see the face beneath the hood, the Ringwraith would be smiling. "Ciaran of the North." the Nazgûl King said suddenly, making everyone except the assassin and the elfling jump. "Do you know why you're here?"Ciaran stared into the black abyss beneath the Ringwraith's hood, unaffected by the fire-like eyes that glowed like a demon's from within the shadow, and shrugged carelessly. The Witch-King glided forward, walking slowly around Legolas like a wolf stalking a rabbit."This is why you are here, assassin. The Dark Lord Sauron has a job for you. He wants you to pass on your skills to this little elfling here."Ciaran kept his surprise from showing on his face. "Why?" he asked."Lord Sauron has plenty of orcs and men to take out the armies of his enemies," the Witch-King said. "What he needs now is a special warrior— an assassin— to kill those who are not at the front lines of war. The slaying of Kings, Lords, and leaders is more delicate than what orcs and goblins are capable of. Such a profession requires... finesse. The Dark Lord has no desire to retrain assassins every time his chosen one dies, and so the answer is obvious. No race is more deadly than the elves, and even their children can be molded." The Witch-King stopped his circling, turning to stare at Ciaran. "I do not want this elfling tortured, mutilated, or beaten into submission. That is not what Lord Sauron demands. We need an assassin, quick with his mind and quicker with a blade, loyal to none but his employer. You will teach him your skills."With these words the Witch-King grabbed the Prince by the back of his tunic, throwing him at Ciaran. The assassin deftly caught the child, setting him upright before looking up at the King of the Nazgûl."Very well." he said simply. He turned to look at Legolas. "Come."With that, he walked into the depths of the fortress, and paused just inside the doorway. The elfling hesitated a moment, glancing nervously at the Witch-King before deciding he would take his chances with the strange man and hurrying after the assassin. Elf Prince and Assassin walked side by side in silence, Legolas glancing curiously at Ciaran from time to time, looking up at the assassin with wide, innocent eyes. Such innocent eyes, eyes that reminded him of—Ciaran squashed the grief before it could fully form, his expression never changing. He did not deserve to feel grief. His hands were covered in too much blood, and his heart was too hard for such emotions. Emotions were weaknesses. Weaknesses that could be exploited. It was that weakness, that emotion, that had caused them to be— that caused The Incident. He did not deserve emotion.So why did he have to keep reminding himself that?Ciaran did not outwardly acknowledge the Prince's curiosity, keeping his expression stoic and cold. He halted in front of the room that the orcs had given him— a room he now knew was going to be his home for quite a while— and opened the door. The "room" was in fact four rooms, leading out to a personal training area outside. It was only now that Ciaran understood the significance of the location of the room, or perhaps the proper word would be "apartment". The apartment consisted of two bedrooms, a living area, and study, only separated by thick stone-block walls."This is your new home, Prince." Ciaran said bluntly. "Get used to it."Legolas moved cautiously into the apartment, glancing around before turning back to the assassin. "I won't be here long." he said in a confident voice. "My Ada will come rescue me."Ciaran barely stifled a scoff. With the Witch-King and Nazgûl present, plus the thousands of orcs inside the fortress, it would take the combined might of Mirkwood, Lothlorien, and Rivendell to even stand a chance in a rescue attempt. "This is your home now. And I wouldn't mention your father here. There's no need to anger the orcs. And angry orcs hurt people."The Prince quieted, glancing nervously out the door before shuffling closer to Ciaran. "You won't let the orcs hurt me." he said quietly.Ciaran's eyebrow inched upward at his open naivety. "Why not?"The elfling looked up at him and Ciaran was once again caught in the innocence of those silver-blue eyes. "You will protect me because you are not a bad man." His head tipped slightly, as if he were listening to voices only he could hear. "You are very sad, but you are not a bad man."Ciaran mentally cursed the elfling for making him so unsettled, and himself for letting him. Unwanted memories and emotions were rushing through a body he had once thought incapable of producing them. It was the eyes, he decided. The innocent, childish, pure eyes that reminded the assassin so much of him and her. He must be weaker than he thought for a child to shatter him so easily."Don't count on that, Prince." the assassin told the elfling, before opening the door to the smaller bedroom "This is your room. Go to bed. We start your training tomorrow."He expected protests or exclamations about being rescued tomorrow, but none came. The tiny elfling merely nodded, taking off his dirty shoes and climbing into the bed with his day clothes on. Ciaran would have to ask for proper clothes for the child tomorrow. Before the confused assassin could retreat, Legolas's small voice sounded out of the dark depths of the room. "What's your name, Mister?"The assassin paused in the doorway. What should the boy call him? Master? Teacher? Mentor? "I am Ciaran." The words slipped out before he could stop them and he blinked, surprised at himself."Nice to meet you..." the Prince mumbled, and was immediately asleep, leaving a confused assassin to retreat to his own room.LOTRLOTRLOTRThe moment Ciaran's surroundings came into focus, the assassin knew he was dreaming. His surroundings were terribly, horribly familiar, and yet he always knew that they would appear the moment he shut his eyes. He had this dream almost every night, ever since the Incident. The dream was The Incident, after all. And the dream— the memory— always started the same way. Beneath the shining sun stood a man and a woman on a porch."I can't do this anymore," Eithne, his wife— the one woman he ever truly loved— said. Her red hair was pulled back into a loose bun, her green eyes flashing with emotions. She was wearing the blue dress he had given her for her birthday, a small spattering of flour on the skirt from her earlier attempts at baking.Ciaran could not stop the words that came from himself next, unable to prevent the events before him from taking place. "Eithne—""You said you were going to stop," the red-haired woman whispered, voice cracking. "You said you were going to get an honest job."His dream/memory self looked at the ground, fists clenched tightly at his sides. "I know, darling and I'm sorry. Being an assassin is a part of who I am. It's all that I'm good at.""You could use your medical knowledge to become a healer—""I only know some healing herbs and most of the pressure points I use are harmful or deadly.""You could do woodwork or become a blacksmith—""But I will never be more than average."And then his wife exploded, screaming at him with her eyes glowing like emerald flames. "Is that what it is? You want to be special? You think that you're only good at killing?"His memory/dream self avoided her accusing gaze, looking out over the lush fields that surrounded their home. His voice was soft and heartbroken when he spoke again. "I am special. I was trained from childhood to kill the enemies of my father and older brother. While other children were outside playing I was throwing knives at a target. I want to be a normal farmer or baker or blacksmith for you and Brian, Eithne, but I cannot deny who I am any more than I can stop the moon from rising."She was quiet for the longest time, piercing eyes never leaving his face. It was those eyes that had captivated him the first time they had met. Her green eyes had been filled with such wonder and innocence that he had felt moved by them, like a shadow reaching for the light. The naivety had long-since vanished from Eithne's eyes, but was now in the bright blue eyes of their son, Brian. Brian, who had just turned five years old. Finally, his wife spoke."Leave."The one word echoed in Ciaran's mind, and the oak door had been shut before the single dreadful word had fully registered. Memory/dream Ciaran stared at the closed door, speechless, for a long five minutes.Then he walked away.Every single day, in the ten years since The Incident, Ciaran wished he had not left that front porch. He wished he had not gone to the nearest tavern, drinking for all he was worth. He wished he had not staggered home at one in the morning, almost too intoxicated to see straight. If he had not left, if he had not returned so late, then maybe he would have arrived in time to stop his wife and child from being murdered.As it was, Ciaran could not change the events in his dream any more than he could change the events of the past. The assassin was grateful that the fuzziness and headache he had received from drinking did not transfer into his dreams. At the same time, he wished it did. Every time he had the dream, Ciaran was able to see the scene in perfect clarity, unlike what had happened in real life. And every time he had the dream/memory, he noticed another little detail, thought about the choices he could have made, tried to imagine the exact events of his family's deaths until his stomach clenched. Now, Ciaran lived for the extra noticed details in the mystery that had never been solved, hoping that one day he would discover who had murdered his wife and son. In the ten straight years of dreaming/remembering The Incident, no such revelation had come forth.Until tonight.Ciaran saw him.His dream/memory self was stumbling towards the front porch, not paying attention to the world around him when he— the Ciaran of the present— saw him disappearing into the forest behind the house. He was not a Man as Ciaran had expected. He was not an Elf as the assassin had thought in his darkest moments. He was not a Dwarf as the man had mused when drunk. He was not of the race of any of the Free People of Middle-earth.He was an orc.An icy chill trickled down Ciaran's spine as he watched the creature vanish, blending with the shadows. The creature who had killed his family, a member of the race that he had worked for many times after the Incident without a second thought, who he was working for right now. A twig snapped behind him and he twisted, stiffening as he spotted Legolas. Legolas? What was he doing in the dream? The elfling looked up at him with innocent silver-blue eyes, so different yet so similar to Brian's bright blue, and Eithne's fiery green.As Ciaran watched the silver-blue eyes hardened, the light within them going out. Suddenly Legolas looked dangerous, like a deadly predator ready to strike. Ciaran felt an icy chill just by looking at him, the feeling of danger making his heart pound in his chest. A glint of metal caught the man's eye and he looked down, face paling with horror as he saw the bloody knife in the elfling's hand."So will you do it?" a voice asked from behind him.Ciaran whipped around to find Eithne standing behind him, blood from her chest wound dried on her blue dress. Beside her stood Brian, brown-haired, blue-eyed Brian, who stared at his father with hatred in his eyes."Will you do what those monsters want?" Eithne asked in a cold, accusing tone. Ciaran turned back to look at Legolas and his heart froze as he saw not the young elfling, but a small brown-haired boy with cold hazel eyes. A boy who was covered in blood but did not care. A monster to his core."Will you turn him into a killer..." Eithne whispered coldly in his ear. "... just like you?"Ciaran snapped awake, eyes opening to the sight of dark stone above him. He did not breath harshly and he was not covered in perspiration like some are wont to do when waking from nightmares. Instead he was silent, and absolutely still, staring blankly at the ceiling he could barely see.As silent as a shadow he stood, exiting his room on soft steps and entering the one adjacent to his. The Elf Prince was fast asleep, eyes open and glassy with his breathing soft and even. Ciaran stood next to the bed for a moment before sitting on the mattress's edge, trying to collect his thoughts. He could not deny many things this night. One was that he was employed by the race that had murdered his wife and son. Another was that they expected him to turn this little elfling into a cold-blooded killer. And finally... Ciaran realized he did not want to.So now what?The assassin knew he could easily escape Dol Guldur by himself. He could not with an elfling in tow. Firstly, the Prince's glow was a beacon in the dark fortress. Secondly, the Witch-King would be able to sense him no matter how well-hidden he was. In other words, Ciaran knew that escape was not an option, for him or the Prince. He could not leave the boy here alone, after all. Not now that he was so reminded of Brian.And yet he had no choice but to train the innocent child. If he refused, the Witch-King would find another to turn Legolas into Sauron's Assassin. Ciaran would not allow that to happen. So what could he do?Legolas shifted and mumbled in his sleep, sticking a thumb into his mouth. Lips twitching— Brian used to do that too— Ciaran gently took the appendage out of the elfling's mouth, receiving no protests or moves to place the thumb back where it had been. Legolas would never work for those monsters— the monsters that killed his family— not while he drew breath. The assassin gently brushed a hand over the long pale locks, smiling softly as the elfling mumbled in response. Ciaran had to save him, to keep the young one whole and good. Eithne would have wanted him too. But how?Ciaran sat with the sleeping elfling for the longest time, trying to figure out a way to prevent the Witch-King from getting his assassin. Slowly, an idea formed in the man's mind and he grinned, a grin that was a complex mix of triumphant and pained.Yes, I will train this child to be an assassin, he decided. But I will not train him for what you wish, vile creatures. He will not become one of your merciless killers. I will teach him compassion, morals, justice, and love. I will teach him the wonders of Middle-earth and why it is worth fighting for... even though I did not. Legolas will not work for the Enemy, he will be a warrior of the Free People of Middle-earth. I will teach him how to kill orcs. I will teach him how to fight Dark Sorcery. I will teach him how shield his mind and soul from evil, so that it may never corrupt him. I will teach him everything you want me to, but it will not be for use against the forces of Good. He will use them against you. And he will destroy you all. Prepare yourselves, servants of the Shadow. Your doom is coming!LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: This idea just popped into my head while I was trying to get over my writer's block on my other stories. I still have writer's block for most of my other stuff, but I have four chapters of this done so I decided to start posting it. I hope you enjoyed it!Please review! Give me feedback!


********** Page 2 **********

Chapter One: In the Depths of Dol GuldurThird Age 2611. (400 years ago...)Dol Guldur. The Hill of Sorcery. A fortress of darkness and evil, it stood tall in the Southern section of the forest once known as Greenwood the Great, now called Mirkwood. The structure was a beacon for all kinds of evil, from the Nazgûl that resided there to the orcs, goblins, and cruel men that were drawn to the black towers of the fortress. For hundreds of years Dol Guldur emitted it's malice into the surrounding forest, corrupting the once-green trees until they blackened with anger and hatred, lashing out against the light. It was said that the fortress then had this affect on all things that resided within it, dooming them to evil. The Witch-King's presence only added to the stronghold's might. Few could resist the corruption, and even fewer could make themselves immune. And yet, deep in Dol Guldur's dark halls, two beings were indeed immune to their home's power.Legolas sat on the railing of a balcony that overlooked the forest, one leg drawn up to his chest while the other swung freely in the air. Long pale blonde hair cascaded to his mid-back, left loose except for the two braids that kept stragglers away from his face. Normally, an elf such as himself would be attacked and killed on sight by all of the Evil in Dol Guldur. However, Legolas was a special case. Because while he had the gracefulness, looks, and ears of an elf, Legolas did not glow like all other elves did. Without his natural glow, Legolas could easily pass for a man as long as he covered his ear-tips. He was a very fair and beautiful "man" of course, but still a man to the casual observer.Ciaran had taught Legolas how to suppress his inner light early on. It was necessary for the young elf's survival in Dol Guldur. Orcs and other dark creatures all had a profound hatred for elves, not because of their beauty or grace, but because of their natural glow. The glow— a beacon of light in the darkest places— angered and disgusted the orcs in particular, reminding them of what they once were. Orcs did not like to be reminded that they were once elves. And so they attacked all elves with a fierce and savage blood-lust. Luckily, Legolas was able to suppress his inner light mere days after entering Dol Guldur, so the orcs generally left him alone. At least, they did not try to tear him apart as an elfling.As a result, suppressing his glow had become second nature to Legolas. It put no strain on his mind, body, or spirit, and was a helpful tool when sneaking around in dark shadows. The only side effect that came with this technique was intriguing but harmless. For an unknown reason, Legolas's eyes turned a bright violet— and stayed that way— whenever his inner light was suppressed. Legolas had been suppressing his glow nonstop for the past eighty years of his life, and would have forgotten that his eyes were naturally silver-blue if not for Ciaran reminding him.Ciaran had become a mix of teacher, friend, and father-figure for the young elf. Legolas did not remember his birth father, or anything from his life before being captured by the orcs and taken here. Occasionally, he would get a brief flash of blurred memories as he slept, but other than that, nothing. He did not know why the memories had faded— he had never received any head injuries in his training with Ciaran— but had a feeling that the darkness of Dol Guldur had something to do with it. Yet that same power that had been unable to corrupt him or Ciaran. Along with the expected training to become a warrior and assassin, Ciaran had taught Legolas four important lessons, ones he knew were imperative in the deception against the Nazgûl:"Harden your heart so you never falter.""Shield your soul so it cannot be corrupted.""Close off your mind so none can invade it.""Mask your emotions so they cannot be used against you." To the Nazgûl and orcs of Dol Guldur, Legolas and Ciaran were loyal servants of Sauron. In reality, the two were plotting their enemies' dooms. Along with learning how to kill a man in a hundred different ways, Legolas learned the quickest and most efficient way to slay orcs and goblins. When learning how to hide from Light Magic and the Magic of the Elves, Legolas was given lessons on how to resist Black Magic in it's darkest forms. Legolas learned curses in Black Speech and words of healing in Sindarin and Quenyan, and was fluent in many of the languages of the different species of Middle-earth.Legolas was deadly to both sides in the war for Middle-earth, and could easily have been a rogue element, shifting from side to side like Ciaran had for many years. Yet it had been the assassin's teachings and shielding of the young elf from Evil's influence, and one memory that would keep Legolas in the fight for Good forever.The only memory he had from his past was that of an orc taunting him about his mother's death.The elf wanted nothing more than to stab the Orc Captain, Grihtz, through the heart every time he saw him, but knew that he could not. The Enemy believed that Legolas was completely loyal to Sauron, and that Ciaran was a neutral element but swung their way. Deception was the two's best friend in Dol Guldur, and it would not do for the Enemy to be alerted that their two "loyal" assassins were plotting against them. Not while the two were trapped.The Witch-King's power and control over the fortress was too much for Legolas and Ciaran to escape without a confrontation with the Ringwraiths. Despite their training and skill, even they stood no chance against all nine of the Nazgûl, especially in Dol Guldur. The Black Magic powered by the Ringwraiths' presences— specifically the Witch-King's— was too potent in the fortress for them to overcome. If they tried to fight or escape, their movements would be slowed and their wills weakened by the Witch-King. It was inevitable in Dol Guldur.While immune to corruption, the two were not infallible against such compressed Dark energy. Eighty years of planning would be wasted if they tried to leave while the Witch-King was inside the fortress. Like a person who knew there was a bug crawling on their skin, the Witch-King was ever-aware of Legolas and Ciaran's movements within the fortress. He did not know what they were doing, but he knew where they were. And so the two assassins patiently waited. The longer they did nothing to openly oppose the Nazgûl or orcs, the more lax the Enemy became.There had been a few near-misses when Legolas was younger, though. The elfling's first kill had been a man who worked for the Shadow, when Legolas was the equivalent of a human seven year-old. He had barely managed to hold back his emotions until he and Ciaran had returned to their rooms in the fortress. There, the elder assassin had held the elfling as he sobbed for the life he had taken. To this day, Legolas still felt grief whenever he took the life of a man, and even then the life would be taken only in self-defense.For orcs and goblins, he had no such qualms. The elf could easily kill them without being provoked. This difference in reaction was a relief to Ciaran, who had worried that his apprentice would become completely detached when he killed. Legolas's grief saddened yet warmed the older assassin's heart, telling him that the young compassionate elfling still resided in the warrior's body. The goodness was well-hidden, but it did exist. And that was all that mattered.Legolas continued to watch the trees, longing to go outside of the fortress. It was not a desire to be beneath the trees so much as a simple wish to not have stone around him. He was not completely without nature, of course. As an elf, he could not survive within the stone fortress forever. Years ago, Ciaran managed to convince the orcs to plant a single oak tree in the two assassins' training grounds. It was a shadowed tree, but still a tree nonetheless.That tree was enough for Legolas to connect with, and learn it's languages along with the language of it's light kin. Through this tree, he could vaguely converse with the shadowed trees outside of Dol Guldur, even reaching the light trees that lived further away if he concentrated. At first the elf— at that time an elfling— did not know why the shadowed trees spoke to and understood him, accepting him unlike his kin, but suspected that it had something to do with his suppressed glow.He asked his oak tree about their acceptance once, and received a surprising answer. To the trees, Legolas's aura was not blinding and painful like the auras of other elves. It was pleasantly muted, not overwhelming the shadowed trees senses. The trees did not feel pain at his touch. Instead, when he touched them, they felt warm, vaguely remembering an echo of what they once were.Light. Joyful. Green. Lively. Beautiful.The touch of the Eldar once brought this forgotten joy to the trees. Now, all it brought was pain. The elves' touch burned as painful as fire, too light and warm for the shadowed trees. Their touch hurt, and pain made the trees angry. It made them forget their love for the elves. It made them want the source of their pain gone. But this was not true for Legolas, the elf that was not too bright for their darkness, but not too shadowed for their remnants of life.The shadowed trees called him Daelas. Shadow Leaf.Legolas was not sure how he felt about the name. His worst fear was that he truly was doomed to the shadows, that he was not quite an elf because of his abilities and skills. In all the years of learning History from Ciaran, Legolas had never heard of an Elven Assassin, or an elf who could talk with shadowed trees and suppress his inner light. Elves were beings of purity and light, were they not? So what was he?Legolas half-heard, half-sensed the orc coming up behind him but did not turn, his posture still calm and relaxed. The orc halted fifteen feet behind the elf, and he could hear the dark soldier shifting from foot to foot. The assassin mentally smirked, keeping all expression off his face. When he was an elfling, the orcs left him alone because of his suppressed glow, the Witch-King's orders, and Ciaran's killing sprees if they so much as looked at his apprentice the wrong way. Now, the residents of Dol Guldur tended to avoid him for different reasons: fear and survival.If an orc or goblin attacked Ciaran or Legolas, the two were free to kill them in retaliation. The Witch-King did not care what happened to his lowest grunts, and if they were stupid enough to antagonize the assassins, they were too stupid to live. The Lord of the Nazgûl was unaware how much the two assassins used this to their advantage, or how many orcs they actually killed. Orcs died all the time in Dol Guldur, stabbed in the back by their allies. Legolas and Ciaran could kill without leaving a trace, or in a way that made it appear that a Race other than their own committed the act. And they had done just that, many, many times."Yes?" Legolas asked the orc in a flat, cool voice.The orc jumped, backing up a step. "The Witch-King requests your presence." he said in a deep, gravelly voice. He looked as if a dropped pin would make him flee.Legolas looked at him with his unnerving violet eyes, the orc swiftly caught in the chaotic depths of his gaze. It was well-known that some elves could capture a being with the hidden wisdom and power shown through their eyes, an ability that some ignorant mortals called magic. In reality, this "power" was nothing more than the mortal's reaction and surprise. Elves that were thousands of years old looked no older than thirty, and yet their eyes could show ancientness beyond mortal comprehension. It was this that made many mortals freeze under the gaze of the Eldar.Legolas's glowing violet eyes amplified the affect, so it was a little more effective than the norm. Through his eyes, many could see wisdom, but also danger and wildness. His eyes could promise death, inspire fear, and cause the bravest man to falter. All because of their unnatural shade, the impossible hue of violet no Race of Middle-earth possessed.The elf let the orc sweat a little beneath his gaze before he turned back to the window. "Your message is noted. Leave."He spoke purposely, in a cold, condescending voice, waiting for the orc to react. Orcs were proud creatures, quick to anger if insulted. Angry orcs did not think, which was all Legolas needed. Sure enough, the orc snapped, grabbing him by the throat and lifting him into the air. "Why you little—" He paused, yellow eyes widening as he realized who he had just attacked. Unfortunately for him, it was already too late.Legolas remained calm despite his lack of air. Moving his right hand, he gently pressed a spot on the grunt's forearm. The orc yelped as his arm went numb, his hold on the elf relaxing. Legolas landed lightly on his feet. He smiled at the orc, a fake, cold smile that promised nothing but death.The elf spoke a single word. "Run."And the orc did.Legolas watched him go, mentally counting down in his head. Three...The orc was out the door, running down the hall to get away from the elf with the unnatural eyes.Two...He headed towards the barracks, where Legolas was not allowed to go. Surely he would be safe there?One...The elf was not following him. Why was he not following him?Zero.The orc paused, standing stock-still in the center of the hallway. Without making a sound he collapsed, dead before he could hit the floor. A small wound to his sternum trickled black blood. The orc had not even known he had been stabbed. No one was around to witness his sudden demise, and the orcs that would stumble upon his body later would shrug and drag him away without even considering an investigation. It was these small acts of vengeance against his captors that kept Legolas sane, that prevented him from exploding and rampaging through the orcs ranks until those responsible for his capture and his mother's death were massacred. That would not do, because following that path would lead to nothing but his own death. And Legolas, trapped as he was, had too much to live for.Back at the balcony, Legolas turned on his heel and traveled through the fortress, headed towards the Witch-King's seat of power that resided in the tallest tower. The halls of Dol Guldur were ruined black stone, not even the torches holding back the large shadows that penetrated the fortress. The sun never shone on the Hill of Sorcery, the sky always in a deep overcast, yet somehow it did not rain. The Darkness was so strong that many Elves, Dwarves, and Men would have collapsed before it's might. But not Legolas.At the bottom of the stairs he met Ciaran, who merely quirked an eyebrow at him but did not speak. The Dunedain had not changed much in the eighty years since Legolas had come to Dol Guldur. At least, not physically. The cold, apathetic man he had once been had been replaced by a calm teacher and father. Ciaran was a mix of the assassin he used to be and the father he had become with Brian. The orcs never saw the patience Ciaran had when teaching Legolas the pressure points in a human body, and never spotted the sadness in the man's eyes whenever the elf named them all correctly.Ciaran could not escape with the elfling all those years ago, but he did manage to keep Legolas's childhood relatively happy. He managed to keep the elf good, and made sure that he knew which side he was on in the battle for Middle-earth. Ciaran was glad that Legolas did not face the cruel training he had faced as a child, and that the elf never became like him.Side by side, the two hidden lights in a sea of darkness ascended the winding stairs that led up to the Witch-King. As they climbed, the air around them grew steadily heavier and darker, the Black Magic that made the Hill of Sorcery so evil escalating the higher they went. Neither elf nor man were affected by it, their shields locked tight around them, keeping their minds and bodies safe. They halted before a large door made of black wood, Ciaran knocking once before entering.The Witch-King sat on a throne of black stone, blending into the shadows that shrouded his cloaked form. Torched with green flames lined the walls, doing nothing to bring light to the room and only making the shadows deeper. It seemed as if each corner was an abyss, ready to swallow anyone who dared to wander too close. Legolas and Ciaran stopped before the Witch-King, kneeling and bowing low before their "Lord"."You summoned us, My Lord?" Ciaran asked in a smooth, calm voice. The Nazgûl Lord's fear-inspiring aura had no affect on either assassin. They did not fear the Ringwraiths.A soft, hissing voice emitted from the darkness beneath the hood. "For eighty years you have taught your pupil your trade. Tomorrow he will be tested."Neither assassin reacted or blinked. "What is the test, My Lord?" Ciaran asked.Flaming eyes glittered from within the dark depths. "He will face thirty orcs in battle. If he survives, we will begin the final stage of his training."Legolas and Ciaran kept their thoughts off of their faces. They both knew what the "final stage" was. The Witch-King would cast Dark Magic upon Legolas, binding him in servitude to Sauron. That was not what worried the two, however. Legolas's training and resistance against Dark Magic was too thorough for the Witch-King's magic to work. There would be no affect on him, and the Nazgûl Lord would instantly know he had been deceived. The two would be found out and killed, all of their work for nothing.Legolas did not straighten up or let false pleasure show on his face. That would only be seen as fake. He was an assassin, trained to be the Hand of Sauron. He showed no emotion, he felt no emotion. He was cold, aloof, and apathetic to all things, even the news that he would soon be serving his Lord. Legolas knew what was expected of him, and acted his part accordingly."Unfortunately, I and my kin have a prior engagement in Minas Morgul and cannot watch your test." the Witch-King continued. "Captain Grihtz will oversee your final exam. You are dismissed."Heartbeats did not change, expressions remained the same, but deep inside the safety of their thoughts Legolas and Ciaran were experiencing a mix of hope and suspicion. They bowed to the Ringwraith before exiting the room, feeling his dark gaze on their backs.Why would the Witch-King tell us that he and the other Nazgûl are leaving? Legolas wondered, face revealing nothing. Does he trust us or is he suspicious? He did not allow his concern to show on his face or in his movements, walking through the dark halls as casually as one strode through a village market. There was no room for fear or uncertainty in Dol Guldur. Not for them.They made their way through the dark halls, steps confident and sure as they ignored the orcs around them. Power equaled survival in a place like this, and the two assassins exuded it in the subtle, dangerous auras surrounding them. The message they sent to the orcs around them was simple: Anger us and die. It was intriguing that two beings could hold such power, yet be so powerless at the same time.No one stopped the pair as they went to their rooms, some orcs even flinching out of the way as they passed. That was how things were run here. Inspiring power and fear let one come out on top. Even though all he used these techniques on were orcs, Legolas still hated it. His natural personality wanted to lead and be respected through love and good deeds. But in Dol Guldur, that would not happen.Ciaran and Legolas entered their small section of the fortress, going out into their small training field and sitting beneath Legolas's shadowed oak tree. Still, the two did not speak their thoughts aloud. Instead, they communicated silently in the sign language of the Dwarves, Iglishmêk, which not even the Witch-King knew."What now?" Legolas asked. "Tomorrow is my trial, and the Witch-King departs from Dol Guldur. Do you think this is a test, and he will remain here to see what we do?""If he remains here, you will be able to sense it." Ciaran responded. "Even so, tomorrow is our last chance to escape. If we do not, we will be discovered anyway when the Witch-King attempts to bind you to the Dark Lord. We must leave tomorrow.""What is your plan?" Legolas signed back. "Do we attempt to sneak past their defenses?""Yes. Though if the Witch-King is not out of the fortress when we do, it will be useless." the man closed his eyes for a brief moment, letting out a soft sigh. "Either way, tomorrow will be our last day in Dol Guldur. Tomorrow we will leave this place, through freedom or death, Prince."Prince. The name that Ciaran always called Legolas, although the elf did not know why. Nor did he care, for it was just a nickname after all.The fortress of Dol Guldur had failed to take many things from Legolas. He kept his light, his goodness, his joy. He kept his mind, his freedom, his life. He even kept his morals, which many had lost in the dark Hill of Sorcery. But there was one thing he had lost. The elf did not remember much from before his arrival in Hill of Sorcery. He remembered his mother, but only vaguely. Every other memory was gone. Every single one.Legolas did not remember his father. He did not know he had brothers and sisters. He did not remember pieces of the lullaby his mother used to sing to him, or the name of the place he had once called home. He did not even remember what it looked like. All of these memories, pieces of his life from before Dol Guldur, were cut off from him, including the identity he once held.Legolas did not remember he was a son of the Elvenking of Mirkwood. He did not know he was a Prince.LOTRLOTRLOTRThe palace of the Elvenking was as somber as a tomb. No laughter sounded through the halls. No gossip was passed between the servants. The guards were stoically silent, expressions blank or grave. A heavy grief hung over the stone halls, like a terrible storm about to break. The tension, despair, and grief were shadows penetrating the heart of the kingdom, and none could lift it.Thranduil sat on his throne, staring at the door, waiting for it to open. He knew that it would happen soon. Every day, after all of his meetings were done, the Elvenking sat alone in the throne-room, waiting. He did not know why he still waited. The news he received never changed. In fact, it had been growing steadily vaguer and more distant these past few years. Yet deep in his heart, Thranduil knew that one of his older children would come through that door after a day on patrols. They would come in, with weariness and despair on their faces, and tell him that they could not find Legolas. They would say that they could not get close enough to Dol Guldur to find out anything. The shadowed trees reacted too violently for the elves to use stealth around the fortress. And so the warriors would come back with no news.No news was better and worse than some news. Because Thranduil knew of only two other things his children and the warriors would say if they did manage to find out what happened to Legolas: "He's alive." or "He's dead." The Elvenking did not know what words he feared more. And so the repeated reports of nothing new pained and relieved him. He was so selfishly relieved...The door opened. Thranduil looked up as Megilag, his second son, strode in. So it was his turn today. Aglar, Megilag, Bereneth and Fael split up the patrols between them, scheduling it into their weekly routine. The King's warrior children always led the patrols, none of the other warriors protesting or asking for a change. There was rarely change.There was no smile on Megilag's face, but no tears either. Instead his hazel eyes were blank, like the eyes of all his children when they told him nothing. All of them were numb, following the same routine every day, but unwilling to give it up. If they stopped patrolling the border near Dol Guldur, if they stopped trying to find a way past the angry trees and into the fortress, then they were giving up on Legolas.Legolas, his Greenleaf, now known as the Lost Prince throughout the Elven realms.Megilag did not go to his father and King, keeping his distance with his eyes on the ground. He could not move from the spot in which he stood, the customary distance for a captain giving a report. He could not break from the routine. He brushed a strand of silver-gold hair back from his face and spoke in a flat voice. "There was nothing."There it was. The single sentence that Thranduil despised because of it's repetitiveness and prayed for instead of a more terrible alternative. The phrase that had not changed for eighty years. That was all that needed to be said for Thranduil, although in reality it did not need to be spoken. Thranduil always knew there was nothing when his children walked through the door. Eighty years had not been enough time for the grief to fade, and yet it was slowly eating away at the Elvenking's soul. A sharp shudder went through Thranduil and he pressed a hand to his chest. He gasped aloud, leaning over on his throne as physical pain assaulted him. Immediately his second son was at his side, clutching his arm as he shook.So much could not change, and yet so much had changed. Everyone— his children, his warriors, his people, and himself— suffered, each failure weighing greatly upon them, and only adding to the ever-heavier weights on their hearts and souls. Thranduil was distant and withdrawn, yet somehow managed to keep the kingdom running. The only reason he did not fade long ago was because the children he still had needed him, as did their kingdom. But his family was broken by Luineth's death and Legolas's kidnapping.Aglar was stiff and cold. He never smiled or walked through the city to greet the people like he used to. Megilag was cold, numb, or harsh, training his warriors grimly and reacting to anything less than perfect with cool anger. He no longer flirted with every Elleth he met. Both eldest sons hunted orcs with a savage hatred in their spare time, leaving none they hunted alive. They were rarely home.Barhad, who had always been a scholar, dove into his studies, more prone to be reading dusty old scrolls in a tiny, dark study than be outside among the trees. His twin, Bereneth, was quick to anger, snapping at people for the smallest faults. And Fael had not pulled a single prank in all the years since the disappearance, content only when training.Only Hannel had tried her best to retain her old self and pretend everything was normal. She was still motherly, taking care of all her siblings whenever she visited from Lothlorien. But on her last visit, Bereneth— who had just returned from the Patrol— had screamed at her about not caring about Legolas. Hannel had had gone silent, then left. She simply left, and she had never come back to Mirkwood since. Her siblings would still visit her in Lothlorien on occasion, but not as often as they used to.The Royal Family's losses were so great, it was no wonder the remaining family had shattered. Legolas and Luineth had been the ties that held them together, they had all realized too late. But now they were drifting apart, almost strangers despite their shared blood."Eighty years." the Elvenking rasped. "Eighty years to the day tomorrow." Megilag did not ask what he was speaking of. He knew. Another shudder went through the King's form, another pain striking his heart. "I cannot heal. I cannot let this go. We cannot let go. So we are shattering, fading from within..." He heard his son give a sharp intake of breath and tried to reassure him. "No. I'm not fading. I won't leave you all."And yet the pain in his chest— in his spirit— said otherwise. It would be so easy to let go, to allow his grieving soul to pass on into death. Thranduil clung grimly to life day by day, clutching to the hope that Legolas would be returned to them one day. But he could feel himself weakening. If something did not happen, if Legolas's fate remained a mystery, the Elvenking feared that he would give in. Only the futile hope and a sense of duty had kept him grounded to Middle-earth for the past eight decades. But it was becoming harder, so, so much harder to resist..."Ada?" Megilag's concerned voice drew the exhausted father out of his musings.Thranduil's eyes focused to find his second-eldest son standing in front of him, his hands placed lightly upon his father's shoulders. The fear in those ancient and too-young eyes struck the Elvenking's core, making his heart clench in a way that had nothing to do with fading."I am fine." Thranduil tried to reassure him. "I am fine." he repeated, as if to affirm the statement. They both knew that he was lying."Ada," Megilag whispered, voice soft and strained. "You cannot carry on like this. None of us can."Thranduil merely looked at him, the fire in his eyes gone. "Then what do we do, Ion-nin?" he asked. "Do we let go? Do we forget? Do we leave your brother to his fate? Tell me, what should we do?" Years ago, the words might have been said in anger, with a loud voice that demanded obedience. Now, the King's voice was soft, filled with an emptiness that threatened to pull all hearing it into despair.Megilag stared wordlessly at his father, and spoke with the same numbness as he. "I don't know. I do not know what to do." His head dropped in defeat, his fists clenching at his sides.Many wondered why the Royal Family had not followed their mother and wife to the grave. At first, it was hope for Legolas that banked them. But now that hope was fading fast. Their grip on life was fading, some more obviously then in others, and with it Mirkwood's ability to fight the Shadow was also failing. Thranduil knew it. His children knew it. The warriors and guards of Mirkwood knew it. And they were powerless to stop it.If their lasting hope faded completely, or Legolas died, two things could happen. One possibility was that all of the Royal Family would fade, leaving Mirkwood leaderless. Without the will of the King or his children, Mirkwood would fall to the Shadow. The other possibility, however, could be even worse. Thranduil and four of his children— Aglar, Megilag, Bereneth, and Fael— were known to be stubborn, confrontational, and unwilling to compromise with others. If the worst came to pass, instead of fading, the family could become colder than they already were, lashing out at outsiders in anger and rage. Mirkwood Elves already had a reputation of being unfriendly, and that persona could become reality. Either way, the family— except perhaps Hannel who had distanced herself from the others for so long— would be doomed, to slow death or cold unhappiness if Legolas was not returned alive.And so the Elvenking and his six accountable children prayed for their youngest sibling and son. They begged for Legolas's life, pleading with the Valar to give him back to them. Each day they went out and searched for answers, finding none. And each day they clung to their desperate hope, hope they had kept alive for eighty years.In the end, hope was all they had left.LOTRLOTRLOTRDisclaimer: I do not own Lord of the Rings.A/N: Thank you for all of the lovely reviews for last chapter!Translations:Ada/Adar: Daddy/Dad/FatherIon-nin: My sonDaelas: ShadowleafHere's the meanings of Legolas's siblings' names, created on the Elf Name Generator website:Aglar: GloriousHannel: IntelligentMegilag: Rapid SwordBarhad: One Faithful to HomeBereneth: BoldFael: GenerousResponses to Guest reviews: (Is there another way I can respond to you guys?)To "Guest" 1: Thank you! I still have writers block for my other stuff, I'm afraid. :(To "Lys": Thanks! I take my OCs very seriously because they are MY characters, and I want them to be deep and thorough. I hate flat, cliché OCs. Each of my OCs (Legolas's siblings, Ciaran, etc.) all have in-depth personalities, characteristics, and backstories that I have written down in my notes.To "Guest" 2: Thank you!Please review! All feedback is greatly appreciated.


********** Page 3 **********

Chapter Two: The TrialThird Age 2611 (400 years ago...)The fortress Dol Guldur was alive with excitement and activity. The orcs were riled and impatient, eagerly waiting for the battle between Legolas and the thirty Berserker-orcs that the Witch-King had selected to test the elf. Not all the orcs could watch of course. The Witch-King himself had selected those who could witness the battle to properly gauge— and fear— Legolas's skill and ability. An undercurrent of tension and savage excitement seemed to ripple through the ranks of creatures, filling the air with the chaotic buzz of impending blood-lust. The orcs were eager to see blood spilled, be it crimson elven blood or the black blood that ran through the veins of their kind.Blood has already been spilled in the fortress's dark halls as the orcs entered a betting pool. Some bet the elf would kill all of the orcs, others believed he did not stand a chance against them. The disagreements ended violently, like they always did in Dol Guldur. One side was left wounded or dead while the other smirked in triumph over his adversaries' limp form.In sharp contrast to the chaos around him, Legolas stood quietly beneath his oak tree for what would be the last time. His eyes were closed and his face tilted up towards the sky. Beside him was Ciaran, who looked completely relaxed but felt anything but. A long moment passed in silence, with the elf standing absolutely still and the man waited patiently. Legolas felt the area around him, the lightness in the air that signified something much more than natural occurences. His heart was light and his thoughts were clear, not surrounded by the pushing dark that always lingered outside of his consciousness. Violet eyes opened."The Nine are gone, including the Witch-King," he reported, glancing at his mentor.Ciaran was quiet, none of his thoughts showing on his face. Still silent, he reached out and gripped Legolas's shoulder, squeezing his arm gently. "Today we change our fates, Prince." he murmured. "Are you ready?"A heavy weight of tension settled in Legolas's gut. This was it. The upcoming events would decide whether they would walk free or be slaughtered. The elf could feel panic gripping him and clenched his fists, breathing out slowly. There was no room for emotion or fear in the next few hours. Fear and emotions made people hasty, and hastiness led to mistakes. He had to be centered and absolutely calm.Breathe in. Exhale. Breathe in. Exhale. With each breath Legolas calmed himself, letting go of his nerves and fears and replacing them with instinct and logic. Resolute violet eyes locked with collected hazel and the elf nodded. "I'm ready."Ciaran nodded once and the two entered their apartment for the final time. The elder assassin glanced at his apprentice, a small, secretive smirk appearing on his lips. "I'll be back." he said, and walked swiftly out of the room.Legolas watched him go before turning towards his room. He could not help but run his hand along the smooth stone walls as he walked through the rooms that had been his "home" for the past eighty years. Although Dol Guldur was a terrible place, it was the only place he remembered. Yes, the outside world sounded much brighter and more lovable, but the dark stones and cold halls were where he grew up.Legolas felt a pang of worry mixed with fear that had nothing to do with his upcoming trial. Elves were supposed to be at home among the trees, yet he was content in stone, with only one shadowed oak tree to accompany him. For the thousandth time, Legolas wondered if there was something wrong with him. Was he used to stone because it was where he grew up, or was he an unnatural elf? Yes, he always felt calmer under his tree's boughs but still...Legolas quickly cut off this train of thought. Enough of that. I must focus. Pushing his worries away, the elf walked into his room, pulling out a small, flat chest from beneath his bed. Gently, he unlocked the chest and lifted the lid, revealing the contents inside. An elegant bow with green-feathered arrows and two long white-handled knives lay in the chest, seeming to glow softly in the shadows caused by Dol Guldur's air. All were of Elven make, smuggled into the fortress by Ciaran many years in the past. They were Legolas's preferred weapons, though he normally would never dare to use them here. However, the time for hiding was quickly passing, and the Elven blades and arrows— along with the other weapons hidden on his person— might give him the edge he needed in the coming battle. Not in the battle against thirty orcs, but afterward, once the orcs realized that they all were under attack.It was impossible for the two assassins to kill all of the orcs that were gathered to watch the test before one could sound an alarm, but the two soon-to-be escapees had subtlety and distraction on their side. Said distraction was the reason Ciaran had slipped away. It was much easier to sneak about with the Witch-King absent. So much easier it was almost amusing. Almost.A fatal poison put into the orcs' food would be enough to give Legolas and Ciaran the edge that they would need to escape. The spectators were all eating together, enjoying a final meal before the test. If all went well, the orcs watching and participating in the trial would collapse not long after it began, along with many of the orcs who resided in the fortress. The poison moved slowly through the bloodstream, taking fifteen minutes to reach the heart. Once it passed into that vital organ, it would take immediate effect, causing the heart to constrict and making it's beat falter. This would kill many of the orcs, heavily weakening others. Those who were a little more resistant would have to be taken care of, quickly.The image of calm and control, Legolas did not look back as he left the apartment, carrying only his weapons and the clothes on his back. He could not bring anything else, like food, or the orcs would suspect something was amiss. Orcs were sometimes stupid and brutish, but not that unobservant. Besides, the elf did not have much for possessions. Ciaran met him just outside of the training grounds but did not speak or even look at him. His face, like Legolas's, showed none of his thoughts. Any nervousness or tension he may have been feeling was trapped within him, only known to himself in the safety of his mind.The training area was a large arena of stone, on the first floor rectangular in shape. There was no roof, leaving the area open to the elements and sky. Normally, targets, weapons, and shields were lined along the wall, but all had been taken away in favor of giving the orc spectators room to stand. It was odd that such a training round would be "in" the fortress, but the setup kept watchful eyes from knowing the number of orcs within Dol Guldur. The orc spectators were gathered in a jumbled mass, lining the walls. To Legolas they were almost like a thundercloud, shifting and rolling with impatience as they waited for the bitter violence to begin.Legolas's opponents— all Berserker-orcs— stood in the center of the field, waiting impatiently for their adversary to arrive. Berserkers were specially trained to not feel or acknowledge pain, and were incredibly difficult to kill. Berserkers did whatever it took to complete their mission, with no regard for their bodies. If they died in the process of their mission, but completed it, then they were a success. This put the number of Berserkers at a low in the Armies of Sauron, of course, because they lacked survival instinct and tended to die quickly. Legolas was glad about that, for if every orcs fought like a Berserker, high death rate or no, then those who fought for a free Middle-earth would be overwhelmed by the Berserkers' relentless rage.The elf admitted to himself that he was a little nervous about battling the thirty Berserkers. Unless the poison killed all of them, it would be up to Ciaran and him to slay them immediately, before they could shout an alarm. That was easier said then done. While most Berserkers lacked finesse in battle, opting to use random swings and stabs to kill their opponents, these thirty Berserkers had a bit more skill. The thirty selected Berserkers were both tough and smart, masters in their choice of weapon. Ten were swordsmen, seven were archers, five hefted axes, and eight preferred whips and daggers.Their battle-cries would be unheeded— Legolas was supposed to be fighting them after all— but a shout that the two assassins were escaping would be noticed. Legolas knew that he had to take out as many of the Berserkers as possible during the few minutes he had in the trial, leaving only a few potential opponents left when the poison took hold. Hopefully it would prove to only be a precautionary measure. Legolas trusted his and Ciran's knowledge of poisons, and was confident that it would kill most if not all of the orcs, but Berserkers tended to be unpredictable.Once, Legolas had watched a battle between one Berserker and six orcs. One orc had managed to stab the Berserker in the heart, but the creature kept fighting, killing all of his opponents before dying himself. As the elf approached the center of the training area, he reminded himself to attack the instantaneous-death points Ciaran had drilled into him. His other advantage in this battle was not just his knowledge of killing strikes, but also the weakness no Berserker seemed able to overcome. For an unknown reason, perhaps because of the nerve-loss experienced due to their pain training, Berserkers had little to no reflex reaction. Legolas, meanwhile, was an elf, who could react faster than a blink. In the end, that was what would help the elf the most, for this was not a test of swordplay, but a trial of how quickly and efficiently Legolas could kill. Most targets would have many guarding them, after all.The orcs parted as he passed, Ciaran at his right shoulder, but Legolas focused on his opponents, noting the gaps in their armor and any other weaknesses he could find. Eyes, head, throat, under the arm, mid-side, lower back, back of the knees...Too quickly, but after what seemed like hours, Legolas was at the center of the clearing The orcs gathered together, closing off the exit behind him. His posture was relaxed, as if he was waiting for a friendly game to start rather than a battle to the death. The elf let his gaze pass over the Berserkers before settling on Grihtz, who would be overseeing the match. He grinned mentally. Good. I won't have to hunt you down before I leave then..."Today is the trial of Assassin Legolas!" the Orc Captain boomed, unaware of Legolas's murderous thoughts. "Battle to the death, thirty against one! Anything is acceptable except idiotic maggots—" Here he shot the watching orcs a glare. "—interfering!" Grihtz backed out of the clearing, joining the eager orcs that lined the area. "Begin in three... two... one... START!"And Legolas moved.The spectators were stunned into silence, watching with mute fear as the elf became a blur. Barely a second passing, he stabbed one mace-wielding Berserker in the throat and a whip-carrying one in the eye, twisting to behead a swordsman before he could react. Not breaking stride, the elf unsheathed his bow and released three arrows, the shafts burying themselves into his targets' throats. Two more archers and an axeman fell.His bow was back over his shoulder and his knives were drawn in an instant. By then the remaining twenty-four Berserkers were upon him, shrieking battle-cries as they converged upon the elf. At least, they tried to.Like water flowing through loose stones, Legolas danced around the Berserkers, letting them stab, wound, and kill each other as they attacked with haste and vigor. They were overconfident, arrogant that they would overwhelm him, and their impatience became their downfall. Legolas did not move with large leaps and bounds, but with tiny shifts of his body, simply allowing the weapons to pass by him instead of blocking. The assassin lashed out against his foes with quick, precise stabs. In the massed melee around the elf, twelve more Berserkers fell.Legolas leaned over, a Berserker's mace swinging above him harmlessly. As graceful as a dancer he straightened himself, blade snaking through the gap between armor-plates and into scarred flesh. Before the Berserker could fall Legolas gave him a harsh kick, sending him careening into two of his fellows. Legolas twisted and leapt out of the way of a sword, slashing through the two downed Berserkers' neck arteries as he passed over them.Another enemy came, another shift in position was used, and a sword struck the Berserker at his shoulder. His arms swept sideways, and the swordsman suffered a blow that cut into his head, the second stab ending his existence. Legolas kicked out, bringing an axe-wielder to his knees, and rolled out of the way as a whip descended where he had been, striking the axe-wielder instead. Legolas grabbed the whip, pulling, and buried his right blade into the Berserker's forehead up to its hilt.Five Berserkers were left, barely three minutes into the battle. Legolas mentally calculated the passing time since Ciaran had left to complete his mission, subtracting the time since the orcs had eaten. He did not turn away from the fight to catch eyes with his mentor, pushing himself as the final count ticked down.Three...The last axe-wielding Berserker went down, killed by a swift cut that severed his spinal cord.Two...Two arrows stopped two more Berserkers' hearts, one into the head and one into the throat of his enemies. Legolas readied himself as the final two advanced.One... Legolas's blade slashed across the last dagger-wielding Berserker, the orc's whip already cut by his knives. The Berserker remained on his feet, stabbing at him wildly. The elf shifted out of the way, grabbing his opponent's arm as he passed while pressing a point on the orc's neck with his other hand. The Berserker slumped, lifeless. The elf's last opponent froze as he realized he was alone, and knew he stood no chance against this adversary. His training soon kicked in however, and the Berserker charged the assassin, shouting a challenge. The elf did not move, waiting for his final enemy to come.Zero.Legolas dispatched of the final Berserker... and around him, the orcs fell. They collapsed in large waves, the poison in their bodies stopping their hearts as efficiently as a blade. None made a sound as they fell, only soft thuds marking their contact with the ground. Without signals or words, Ciaran and Legolas flitted among the spectators, silencing the orcs that still lived too fast for them to even realize they had been struck. The two were blurs, dancing through the orcs with blades flashing in the dark. Silent as death itself they ended their enemies lives, the orcs falling to the weapons of the ones they kept prisoner for so long.Legolas's eyes fell on the final orc and he smiled, a cold, feral smile that was a terrible sight to behold. He strode forward, a predator who had sighted long awaited prey, and paused. He stared into terrified yet arrogant yellow eyes, and his own expression hardened. Quick as a blink, metal sliced through flesh and bone, and Orc Captain Grihtz's head rolled away from his body. Legolas looked down at the decapitated body and spoke in a voice colder than ice."That was for my mother, Delorcion."He turned away, running after Ciaran as the elder assassin headed for the door. Now the difficult part began: getting out of the fortress without being detected. Legolas's senses were on high-alert as he followed his mentor down the first hall. It would not take long for the orcs to know something had happened. The area in which the elf's test had taken place was now too quiet. An observant orc might notice the unnatural silence, and come to investigate. Which meant the two assassins had to be as far out of the fortress as possible before the alarm came.To get out of Dol Guldur, Legolas and Ciaran had seven sets of guards to pass. The fortress was set up like a castle, but has a series of extra guards and gates inside the building like those found in a large city. Metal-bar gates were built into the maze-like halls, their purpose to delay and confuse enemies that managed to get into the fortress. A series of walls separated some of the halls, their purpose to trap intruders between the wall and the defenders of the Hill of Sorcery.From the training area, it was right to the first, second, third, and fourth gate, left to the fifth, right to the sixth and seventh, then left to the small door that led outside at the back corner of the fortress. That door was the only way out other than the front gate, which was guarded by fifty orcs, both inside and out. All of the windows were either too high or barred, which made escaping that way impossible.Each gate had a set of five guards, not a problem as long as none had time to call for assistance. The two assassins had decided beforehand that Legolas would take out three of the guards while Ciaran killed the other two. The elf was faster than his mentor, and that extra speed could be enough to keep them alive and undetected for as long as possible.The two were silent as they moved. Stealth was their ally now. They kept to the numerous shadows cast by the sparse torches, soundless and unseen, as the first gate came into sight. They swept down on the orcs like spirits of death. Legolas struck thrice, Ciaran twice, and the first five guards lay dead. The man grabbed the key from the leading orc's belt and unlocked the gate before shutting it behind them. Then, still silent, they moved on.The next six gates were dealt with just as quickly, the assassins striking before the orcs knew they were there. But as they approached the seventh, a shout went up from far behind them."They're dead!" an orc screamed in the distance, an enemy finally stumbling upon the two assassins' handiwork.Instantly, the orcs at the gate were on guard, tense as they peered into the shadows suspiciously. The head guard of the gate turned to his fellow, barking out an order."You! Go see what 'e's yellin' about!"The orc grunt nodded, opening the gate and stepping through. Ciaran cut him down, Legolas silencing two others with small throwing knives. He struck the leader in the throat, making him gasp for air, before slamming the orc's head into the stone wall. A scream ripped through the air and Legolas spun towards the noise. Ciaran cursed softly as he dispatched of the screamer, beckoning to Legolas."In here."The two dashed down the hall, sliding into an empty storeroom as orcs thundered down the hall. The elf and man listened to their alarmed cries and explanations as they discovered their dead allies."There are enemies within the fortress!" an orc shouted over the resulting chaos. "Warn the inner guard!"Legolas resisted the urge to sigh, keeping absolutely still as he and his mentor waited for the orcs to pass. The captain that was present was most likely one of the stupider orcs, not realizing that enemies were trying to get out of Dol Guldur, not in. Ciaran and Legolas waited for the orcs to recede and moved on, to the final gate.This is too easy... Legolas thought as he observed the guards that were the only things between them and the outside world. They had faced little resistance as they escaped, the guards completely surprised by their attacks. Did they truly not suspect treason from within the fortress? If not from the assassins, from someone there. Not all of Sauron's followers were completely loyal, like the Men. Was Sauron and the Witch-King's holds over their pawns so unbreakable that none could rebel? Legolas knew that Mordor would collapse into nothingness if Sauron fell. Would all of the orcs die if the Dark Lord did?Or perhaps it was the Witch-King's presence that had lulled the orcs of Dol Guldur into complacency. The Nazgûl King was a powerful sorcerer, and gave Dol Guldur much of its might with his mere presence. But now he and the other Nine were absent, and some of the darkness had lifted. Either way, there was a weakness here that could be fully exploited someday.Legolas pushed these thoughts to the back of his mind, once more focusing on the escape. Like an owl leaping down on prey, the assassins met their final foes. A slash, a thrust, and three stabs later, it was over. Elf and man stood side by side, their enemies fallen around them.Too easy. Legolas's mind warned. Far too easy. Stay wary.The elf stepped outside, taking a breath of fresh air and looking up at the sky. The air was cool and the sky cloudy, but he had never seen anything more wonderful in his life. In the distance, a mere fifty yards away, the forest stood tall. The shadowed trees rustled and whispered in excitement, sensing him even from afar. The elf resisted the urge to reach out and speak to the shadowed trees. He and Ciaran were not out of danger yet. They could still be seen from the windows and shot. Though it was still daytime, the grounds were as dark as twilight beneath the clouds. Legolas focused on the path ahead, his mentor watching their backs as they ran, shadows hiding within shadows. The younger assassin could feel elation grip him as freedom— true freedom— came ever-closer. As soon as they reached the treeline they were safe, able to vanish into the forest, and evade any who pursued them.After that, Legolas was not quite sure where they were going. Personally, he wanted to travel through Middle-earth, and see all of the places Ciaran had told him about. Gondor, Rohan, the Shire, Rivendell, Lothlorien... all of it. There were so many places to explore, so many places he wanted to see... Unintentionally, Legolas let his mind wander. Ciaran's hand on his shoulder made him stiffen."Focus, young one." the man said gravely. "Keep your head."Legolas caught his eye before turning back to the front, once more scanning the area for any signs of danger. Ciaran continued his watch of the back, eyes moving over the fortress intently as he searched for enemies...It was amazing how quickly things could go wrong.Ciaran spotted movement up the side of the fortress. An orc stood three stories up, grim and determined as he drew his bowstring back. A black-tipped, poisoned arrow strained against his bow as he aimed down at the two assassins. Before the man could speak or move in warning, the deadly shaft was released, whizzing through the air towards—"NO!" Ciaran shouted, twisting Legolas around and shielding the elf's body with his own.Legolas felt his mentor jerk as the arrow struck him, a gasp of pain ripping free of the man's lips. Ciaran slumped, weight falling heavily on the elf, who held the man firmly to keep him from slumping to the ground."Ciaran!"The man grimaced in pain, speaking hoarsely but urgently. "Archer..."Legolas spotted the orc. His bow was strung, aimed, and fired in a second. The orc jerked as the arrow struck him, plummeting from his perch and hitting the ground with a sickening thud. The threat gone, the elf's attention immediately turned back to his mentor, shifting him carefully to study his wound. An arrow protruded from the man's back, crimson blood contrasting sharply with the dark color of his tunic. Legolas's breathing quickened as he stared at the wound, bitter fear clenching around his heart."Ciaran..."The man looked at him with pain-filled hazel eyes, a shaky smile forming on his lips. "I'm alright, Prince." he rasped, though both knew he was lying.Despite his mind telling him the terrible truth, Legolas lifted his mentor into his arms, hurrying towards the forest. If they got to the elves— He will not make it.— they might be able to heal him— The wound is fatal— and Ciaran would be fine— You know it's useless. Legolas ignored fact and knowledge, emotion driving his body's movements as he ran to the trees. Ciaran's face was steadily paling, breath rasping as he struggled to draw in air."Legolas...""Don't speak.""You need to go...""I'm not leaving you.""Prince...""Quiet. We're not doing this."A hollow laugh sounded from the man, tired an mirthless. "Foolish Prince—"Ciaran grunted and tensed in Legolas's arms, back arching in pain. Legolas almost lost his grip on his mentor, and quickly lowered himself to the ground as his hold on the man weakened. The man breathed in short, shallow gasps, muscles locked as agony pierced through him."Listen—" the assassin gasped, gripping the elf's arm tightly. "You must... listen. Please."Legolas wanted to refuse. If he did not, then Ciaran would speak, and say things that could not be said. He would make requests, tell truths, and in turn openly acknowledge that he was dying. The elf did not want to let him, but he could not deny his mentor. The man's hazel eyes were clouding as he looked at Legolas, the grip on the elf's arm never faltering.Ciaran coughed, blood trickling down his chin. His lungs were filling with fluid, killing him from within. He could see the tears brimming in Legolas's violet eyes, held back only by the elf's iron will. Too quickly, darkness crept in on Ciaran's vision, Legolas's face fading into shadows. The man felt a moment of panic. He could not leave yet. He still had things to say! He could feel himself fading, the strength and pain leaving his limbs as his body went numb. Unable to see, unable to speak, Ciaran slipped into his thoughts, desperately wishing he could say what he must.You must be strong, Legolas. Do not let grief claim you. I know that I'm the only one you have but you must survive this. Keep your heart pure, and never falter in your path. There is so much you are meant to do... The assassin could not find the strength to push through the darkness and speak. He could not say all he wished. But he had to! There was one thing he had to say, something he had never dared say before...He felt his lips move, but his voice was distant and soft to his own ears, echoing from a far-off place. "I'm... proud of... you..." he wheezed, barely loud enough for the elf to hear. "... my son." The last word faded from Ciaran's lips and the hand grasping Legolas's arm went limp.LOTRLOTRLOTRTranslations:Delorcion: Shortened version of "Delos-orch-ion" Means "Detested-orc-son" Basically my created version of "bastard"A/N: Thank you for all of the lovely reviews for last chapter! Did you like my fight scenes this chapter? They were difficult to write because everything happens so fast, you know? Legolas is an assassin. He avoids confrontation when possible and goes for killing blows first opening he sees. Speaking of which, there is a very real style of fighting that uses redirection and evasion as a tactic instead of just blocking. This is the style Legolas uses. I can't remember the name...As for how Legolas and Ciaran got out so "easily" (before that last bit)... you'll find out more later. About Ciaran... Me: Hmm... Legolas needs to be alone after he escapes... that means I have to kill Ciaran! :'( Surely my readers won't be too mad. I mean, he's only going to be there a couple chapters.*A few weeks later*Me: *Posts the first chapter*Reviewers: We love Ciaran! Love him love him LOVE him! He's an awesome OC! :D :D :DMe: Uh oh! O_O' Yeah. I might want to run and hide now.Please review! All feedback is greatly cherished and appreciated!


********** Page 4 **********

Chapter Three: Fathers and SonsThird Age 2611 (400 years ago...)Legolas sobbed as he cradled Ciaran's body in his arms, weeping against his father's chest. For a long moment he lay there, pain in his heart and soul, and allowed his emotions to overcome him. Tears streamed down his cheeks in silver rivers of salt-water, his eyes stinging and chest aching as his grief broke free. He cried and wailed and shook Ciaran, begging him to please, please wake up! The calculating assassin that the man had trained was momentarily gone, replaced by a scared young elf who had just lost his father.Then he heard more orcs heading towards him. Legolas gasped once, gathered strength from his training, and brutally cut himself off from his emotions. He could not linger to grieve. He had to leave. If he remained like this, weeping over his father's cooling frame, he would be killed. And Ciaran's death would be for nothing.Laying Ciaran gently on the ground, the elf stood and looked at the incoming orcs, his face impassive despite the still-wet tears on his face. Then, he charged. While most may have screamed their anger in a battle-cry or attacked their foes with reckless fury, Legolas was as silent as a shadow. Like a fanged snake he struck, knives burying into flesh and bone with rapid thrusts and blows. While some warriors may have drawn out the battle, Legolas did not, forsaking swordplay in exchange for swift, deadly stabs. He was water, smooth and flowing. He was air, tireless and inescapable. He was stone, detached and unbreakable. He was lightning, quick and deadly. He was fire, rearing up to strike.Enemies fell faster than they could gather, falling before the assassin's icy, precise, calm rage. His cold, mechanical, almost apathetic attacks made him all the more terrifying to the orcs than any anger could be. Some turned to flee but Legolas stalked them like a lion hunting prey, cutting them down before they could reach the safety of the fortress. Not a single stab or slice missed it's mark.His sharp eyes spotted another archer up on the fourth floor, bow strung. Quick as a blink the elf had drawn and fired, his arrow's flight halted by the orc's head. He shot three more enemies as they approached, their bodies piling up in the small doorway that had served as his escape route.Abruptly, he ran out of enemies, his wide awareness sensing no others nearby. It was time to leave. Glaring at the black fortress behind him, Legolas ran back to Ciaran and lifted him up, taking quick strides into the trees. Instantly, the shadowed trees welcomed him.Daelas! Shadowleaf! They called, leaves rustling and limbs quivering with excitement. You have come, Shadowleaf! You are here at last! Their joy quickly became bitter rage as they saw what had happened to his mentor. Who did this? They demanded. Who killed your heart-father?Legolas gently lay Ciaran down beneath a beech, the tree's limbs brushing against his shoulders and head in an attempt to comfort him. Legolas lay a hand on his mentor's shoulder, stunned by the coldness of his skin.One of the orcs shot him, he told the trees, a single tear dripping from his right eye. I killed the one who did it. Now that the danger had passed, the elf could feel an odd ache around his heart, a heavy emptiness settling in his chest. It was constricting and cold, sending ice through his veins and making him feel chilled and weak. He wanted to weep, but could not bring himself to shed any more tears. He just felt so cold.Not noticing his discomfort, the trees hissed and thrashed, angry for once at those who worshiped the Shadow. Evil orcs. Stupid orcs. They burn our friends and break our limbs. Nasty, nasty, evil orcs! For a brief moment, a few of the trees saw a flash of what the forest had looked like before the darkness had come. They ruined us. They corrupted us. Then the memory grew vague and those trees paused, confusion entering their voices. All is dark because of them.The trees became melancholic, their despair and depression pushing down on Legolas. The elf curled in on himself next to Ciaran's body, unable to pull breathe into his lungs. The chill was spreading outward, creeping into his limbs. He had never felt such cold before, not even when encountering the darkest of powers in Dol Guldur. Legolas winced, pressing a hand to his chest. What was this pain?The oak he lay beneath touched his head with a long branch, melancholy vanishing in the wake of concern. Shadowleaf? What ails you?My chest, he gasped. It hurts. He knew he was not wounded or poisoned. He had not been struck and had not breathed or ingested any unusual substances. There was no reason for him to feel like this. He thought hard, trying to come up with an answer, even going through the human illnesses Ciaran had told him of. Ciaran...The thought of his mentor sent another bolt of pain through his chest, blunt yet sharp as a blade. It was then that Legolas realized what he was experiencing. Elven grief. This pain was the wound upon his heart from losing Ciaran. It was a hole in his soul, a piece of himself ripped away by his father's passing. It was in that instant that Legolas understood why his kin did not become attached to mortals. It hurt too much when they inevitably died.Memories of Ciaran ran through his mind as clearly as the day he had lived them. The elf could see his face with a rare smile. He could feel the man's fatherly embrace as a much younger Legolas ran into his room, crying after nightmares. He could hear his voice, calm and strong, encouraging him as he tried to shoot a bow for the first time...The elf curled up as tightly as he could, the tears breaking free and trickling down his cold cheeks. He clutched at the earth beside him, fingers scraping through the dirt, as the grief crushed his heart more and more. He could not hear the shadowed trees worried shouts, or feel their quick frustration and fear when he did not respond. He was lost in a sea of emotions, pain, joy, love, and grief warring within him. He had never experienced cold before, but this chill had to be colder than anything a mortal could withstand. Legolas found that he could not breathe because of it, feeling light-headed, dizzy, and tired. Suddenly, he just wanted to sleep... and not wake up.No!Legolas gasped and forced himself to uncurl, rising to his hand and knees with his fingers digging into the earth. Weakness had been taken over by shame and shock, the elf forcing himself out of the hole he had fallen in through pure will. How could he think about giving up? How could he think about fading? Ciaran had died for him, and losing himself to grief would make his death be for nothing.The elf gritted his teeth, pushing back the horde of memories that had pushed him so deeply into mourning. He dare not allow himself such overwhelming emotional weakness. Dol Guldur was still close, with danger all around. If he mourned now, here, the orcs could find him. Sinking into elven grief could very well lead to his death.Legolas would mourn— he had to— but he could not let grief take him. If he allowed himself to experience the full capabilities of elven grief, he would fade. He knew he would. He could not allow that to happen. He had to live for Ciaran, who had died to protect him and to make sure he would be free. He was free... but why did freedom have to come at such a price?Legolas stood slowly, every part of him aching but not as badly as before. Once more, he picked up Ciaran, carrying his mentor deeper into the forest. Every few moments, he would glance behind him at the still-visible fortress, watching as it faded into the distance. Around him, the forest began to change, growing slightly less dark with every few steps. It was still dark, the trees still shadowed, but noticeably lighter than it had been. At least, to Legolas it was. As he walked in silence, carrying his mentor's body, he had no idea where he was headed. All he knew was he needed to put Ciaran to rest.Unknown to the elf, the shadowed trees behind him spoke to one another, a message passing from consciousness to consciousness as the trees conversed. The message was short, only two sentences, but would cause a reaction none would ever have expected.The orcs are evil. They wish to harm Daelas. The trees told each other. The orcs are evil. They wish to harm our Shadowleaf.The trees knew Daelas, though they had never met him before this day. Yet for years they had heard him speaking to their kin in Dol Guldur. Through that oak tree they listened and whispered to the elf, teaching him their speech and telling him of things in the outside world. The shadowed trees, usually moody and easily angered, were almost calm when Daelas spoke to them. They were almost content. And they almost remembered what they had once been.Despite many elves' claims that the trees on Dol Guldur's side of the forest were evil, in truth they were not. They were merely lost, afraid, and alone, the Shadow squeezing the life and joy from their limbs. But Daelas helped them regain bits of themselves. He helped them remember that not all was dark in the world. He spoke to them without fear, and listened to the voices that had been ignored and suppressed for so long. These simple things, things Legolas cherished yet did not fully understand the impact of, were enough for the shadowed trees to care for him. Not only care, but give him their loyalty and protection.The shadowed trees were— by the nature forced upon them— on the side of Sauron. At least, they were because they had no other choice. They had no reason for another choice. But then their Shadowleaf came along, and helped them remember things they had forgotten. Now the trees saw they had a choice. In their minds, the optional sides they could join were now two instead of one. There were the orcs and the servants of Sauron, and then there was Shadowleaf. Though Legolas had had a great influence on the trees, the thought of allying themselves with the too-bright-painful-glowing elves had never come into their mind.For many years the shadowed trees had been content to let the orcs roam beneath their boughs and wreak havoc. But now they had killed Daelas's heart-father, and wished to kill Shadowleaf. They were Daelas's enemies. That changed everything.We will protect Daelas. The shadowed trees thought vehemently. None shall harm our Shadowleaf!If the orcs were Daelas's enemies, then they were the darkened trees' enemies as well!LOTRLOTRLOTRThe Witch-King of Angmar was angry. No, he was more than angry. He was frustrated, humiliated, and swore he would behead the next orc to come to him with bad news. The Ringwraith stood by the window of his room, staring down at the distant orcs as they pulled bodies into a pile and burned them. After successfully awakening Minas Morgul's power, the Nazgûl Lord and his kin had returned to Dol Guldur... to find the fortress in a state of disarray.The two assassins, the Elf and the Man, had betrayed him.During the test of Legolas Thranduilion, the two had escaped the fortress, killing any orcs that got in their way. Over a hundred were dead, thirty Berserkers, thirty-five guards, and over forty other orcs who had watched the elf's match, including Captain Grihtz.How had the two managed to remain light and hide it while within the Hill of Sorcery? It should be impossible. Then again, the Touch of Death was one of the best in his trade, excelling in protection against magic. He had taught all of his skills to his apprentice, this the Witch-King knew. That was why he had hired Ciaran to teach the elfling. Many assassins neglected in learning things other than deception and killing. Ciaran was a rare master of all things to do with assassination, and had seemed to be swayed to the Enemy's side. But that loyalty had been nothing but farce, and now the Witch-King had helped create an assassin, a weapon, that would be used against him.Able to hide in the shadows, kill scores of orcs on his own, and was immune or able to hide from the darkest of powers... Legolas Thranduilion was dangerous. Actually, dangerous did not even begin to describe him. He was a nightmare, and could be a serious threat to the Enemy if he joined with the Free People. But would he? The Free People of Middle-earth, especially Men, were known to fear and shun those with abilities that scared them. An assassin-elf would fall far within the category of "fear", even to his allies.Even the elves might reject him. He was an elf, but he did not show his inner light, and whose eyes were decidedly unnatural. Due to their inability to change, many of the older elves— like Galadriel— might not accept him. The Witch-King hoped so. By himself, Legolas was dangerous and deadly. While allied with the Free People, with knowledge of the Enemy no others had, he could make much of Sauron's work crumble.But that was only if Legolas sought out potential allies. While deadly and dangerous, the elf was also naive and uncertain. He had just lost his mentor— the only person he had— just after stepping out into the world. It was unlikely Legolas would reveal himself to his kin. While Ciaran was knowledgeable of elves and their ways, he would not have enough information for Legolas to feel comfortable living with them so soon. Most likely the assassin would remain in the forest or mingle among the humans.If Ciaran were there to show him the world, he would go with his mentor to wherever the man wished. But Ciaran was not there. He was dead. It would take a while for Legolas to show himself to his own kin. One did not simply walk into an elven realm and introduce oneself, after all.The Witch-King's thoughts were interrupted by his door banging open. An Orc Captain hurried in, armor askew with bits of twig and leaves stuck in the joints and his hair. The Ringwraith's curiosity overcame his annoyance and he refrained from decapitating the idiot for barging into his room.He glared at the orc with fiery eyes, freezing him in place. "Report.""My Lord, the trees are attacking us whenever we set foot within the forest." the Orc Captain growled. "I've lost forty soldiers to them!"Of all the things the Witch-King had been expecting to hear, that was the last. "The shadowed trees have turned against us?""Yes, my Lord." the orc said.The Nazgûl Lord rose to his feet, striding forward until he was face-to-face with his subordinate. The orc tensed but did not move, caught by the Witch-King's eyes like a mouse was frozen by a snake's. His chin jerked up the slightest bit, annoying the already irritated Ringwraith. He wanted fear, not courage."I am greatly displeased." the Nazgûl Lord snarled. "Greatly displeased."The Orc Captain kept his silence, knowing any response would not be taken well. With a hiss of disgust the Witch-King turned away from his subordinate, glaring out the window at the traitorous shadowed trees.So much of their work had been undone in a single day. Not only had the Shadow lost a deadly assassin, but the shadowed trees had chosen to join his side! The Ringwraith decided it would have been much for gratifying to use the Elf-Prince as a hostage to force his father into submission. While it was extremely satisfying to see the Elvenking fading in grief, the allure had been lost now that Legolas had escaped...The Witch-King paused mid-step, a sudden idea forming in his mind. He studied the orc, gauging him, noting that despite his nerves he stood impassive and strong. The Ringwraith circled the Orc Captain like a shark scenting blood, studying him and pinning him in place with the power of his eyes. Finally halting in front of the orc, he leaned forward until they were face-to-face once more."Are you willing to die in the name of Sauron?" the Witch-King hissed.The Orc Captain nodded without hesitation. "Yes, my Lord."If the Witch-King had had a face in the physical realm, he would have been smiling. "Then I have a special task for you."Perhaps something from all this could be used to their advantage after all.LOTRLOTRLOTRThranduil worked methodically at the pile of papers on his desk, signing the documents he grabbed without really looking at them. Beside him sat Barhad, his fourth child and third son, working quietly at his side. Sometimes the third Prince of Mirkwood would point out something about the document he held, telling his father of its contents in more detail but other than that, it was silent.Unlike with his other children, Thranduil did not feel like the silence between him and Barhad was forced or accusing. Barhad was merely a quiet type of elf, scholarly and content to sit reading scrolls while others sparred. He was by no means shy or meek, but was level-headed and calm, the voice of steady reason whenever reckless emotions ran high. Though he was young compared to many elves, the third Prince was wise beyond his years, and would most likely become one of Aglar's advisers if he ever took the throne.Thranduil winced at the path his thoughts had taken. If Aglar ever became King, that meant Thranduil was dead or had sailed. Since the Elvenking would never sail while the Shadow still had a hold over Mirkwood, his death would be the most likely reason for the Crown Prince to ascend the throne. Death through fading, more like it."Ada?"Barhad's questioning voice interrupted Thranduil's brooding thoughts. The Elvenking looked up at his son, jumping slightly at the sight of Tollui, one of his advisers, who was standing beside the desk. He had not even noticed when the elf entered the study."Tollui. Do you need anything?" Thranduil asked politely, hiding his surprise as best he could.The adviser's brow creased slightly in worry, but other than that he did not show any concern for the Elvenking's distraction. "Yes. The council was wondering when we were going to hold the meeting on the upcoming Summer Festival. The Sindar from outlying villages want spirits to be available at the festival but the Silvans wish to stick to tradition."Thranduil sighed, running a hand through his long golden hair. "Yes, yes. I remember..." He trailed off, gazing into the distance with a blank expression on his face.Tollui waited a long moment before speaking again. "My Lord?"Thranduil blinked, blue eyes focusing. "Yes?""The meeting?" the adviser prompted."Oh. Yes. Tell them we will meet tomorrow and discuss it." the Elvenking said hurriedly, though his voice was heavy with exhaustion.Tollui studied his King as discreetly as he could. Thranduil's face was pale and drawn, dark circles etched deeply under his eyes. He was shockingly thin, the bones obvious under his skin. While able to maintain a visage of strength in front of his councilors and foreigners, the Elvenking's ruse vanished when he was alone or with only a few others, his agony and weakness showing as terribly as a gaping wound."It's rather stuffy in here, and I see you've been working for a while. Perhaps you would like to join me for some fresh air, my Lord?" the adviser offered cautiously, looking at the pile of scrolls and documents that still needed attending. "Just a short ride in the surrounding forest?"Thranduil looked ready to refuse, his mouth opening to voice his protest. Barhad intervened before his father could speak. "I think that would a ride would be wonderful."The scholarly Prince looked at the Elvenking with an expression that might have been hopeful, except for the worry Thranduil could see in his son's eyes. The Elvenking went into thought, trying to remember the last time he had gone outside of the palace for a reason other than duty and trade. It had been the day Luineth had died, and when Legolas was taken. Exactly eighty years ago today. The Sindar shut his eyes tightly, wincing as the ever-familiar pain ripped through his chest. How could they want to ride out today? Today, of all days, on the anniversary of Luineth's death?Despite this, a small part of Thranduil wanted to see the trees, and smell fresh air outside the palace walls. He had been trapped inside for so long, the last meeting he attended being in Lake-Town sixty years ago. Luineth would be upset with him, for neglecting the trees for so many years. And the more he thought about it, the more the Elvenking realized he missed being outdoors.Thranduil nodded in weary consent. "If you want to go outside, my nature-hating son, I suppose that we have been in here to long," the Elvenking said.Barhad relaxed, an almost happy but small smile appearing on his face. "I don't hate nature, Ada. I just like books more than trees.""And you call yourself a Wood-Elf," Tollui teased, then went to order the stablemen to get their horses ready.An hour later, Thranduil, Barhad, Tollui, and seven guards galloped out of the palace gates, making their way down the road that carved its way through the forest. The Elvenking did not pay attention to where they were going, absorbed by the shadowed beauty of the forest.Even the trees around the palace held hints of shadow, struggling valiantly against the darkness but slowly falling. The elves' presences helped greatly, but could only strengthen them so much. Thranduil felt a new grief in his chest, only adding to the burden of Luineth and Legolas. How had things gone so wrong? How had Greenwood the Great come to this?Am I failing, father? Thranduil asked silently. Am I not strong enough to hold back this shadow, or is this our doomed fate?The ride was silent, the guards trailing respectfully behind their King while Barhad and Tollui rode at his sides. Thranduil let his horse go where he wished, following the steady path that still lay clear in the forest. He breathed in the fresh air, looked up at the bright sun... and felt no relief. The pain in his chest did not lessen. In fact, it had increased, becoming unbearable. Thranduil's vision blurred and his breathing became labored and slow. Failure, grief, and pain weighed down heavily upon him. It was all too much.I'm going to die, Thranduil realized. There is no question about it. I'm going to die. He did not feel afraid or sad. He felt numb. Only numb. The Elvenking glanced sidelong at his son, who rode steadily beside him, then at his adviser who was also one of his friends.I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. I tried...Thranduil was barely aware as he slipped from his horse, the stallion neighing in distress as he tried to catch his falling rider. The Elvenking hit the ground with a thud, but did not feel the impact. Muffled, frantic voices sounded around him, but he could not make out what they were saying. All he could hear was his loud, labored breathing, and the slow beating of his heart. The beat was getting slower.Was this it? Was he finally dying?A small part of Thranduil tried to resist the beckoning darkness, but the rest of him had given up, letting him slip away. He was too tired. He could not fight anymore. He just wanted to sleep. Thranduil could vaguely feel hands lifting him, most likely intending to set him on his horse and race back to the palace. It would be too late by then. The Sindar was already going. He was practically gone.A sudden foreboding feeling washed over the Elvenking, waking him as efficiently as a bucket of cold water being dumped on his head. Around him, his warriors, adviser, and son tensed."Orcs!" the captain of the guards bellowed in warning.The warriors' reactions were instantaneous. They formed a tight protective ring around their King and Prince, swords drawn and arrows notched into bows. Thranduil staggered to his feet, shaking the guards off and unsheathing his sword. His stance was shaky, but adrenaline pumped through his veins, keeping him upright. The reason for his alertness stood beside him, his own sword gripped in his hand. Barhad was a scholar, not a warrior. He could fight, but not skillfully enough for a battle such as this. It was true that Thranduil could barely live, and barely wanted to, but he was not about to let his son die. Even in his weakened state, the Elvenking would protect his family!Thranduil's foreboding thoughts were interrupted as the orcs broke from cover, bellowing and roaring as they bore down on the elves. The two sides met, steel clashing against steel. Thranduil counted thirty orcs, and realized that luck was with the elves and they had run into a relatively small band of enemies. Thranduil's blade locked with an orc's sword, the Elvenking gasping as his enemy pressed down on him with great strength. His legs shook and his arms felt weak, barely moving fast enough to parry another blow. The Sindar tried to get his body to move and fight but he could not. The orc's blade slammed into his again and locked, the Elvenking forced down to his knees. He could not give up! He had to fight, just a little longer. He had to fight for Barhad.Thranduil could see his son with his back to a tree, four orcs circling the two like vultures circled carcasses. Even from his position, the Sindar could see the scholar's hand shaking. One orc struck, Barhad barely parrying the quick blow and the other three laughed. Almost distanced from his own predicament, the Elvenking stared at the orcs, at their cruel smiles and sharp swords, and how they laughed as they circled their prey. The Elvenking's eyes flicked down, and he sighted the armor that the orcs wore. They were from Dol Guldur.For a moment, just a moment, grief became rage.Thranduil's expression twisted into a snarl and he slashed at his opponent, hacking at him with deadly but brutal blows. Startled by the elf's abrupt shift from weak defense to enraged offense, the orc fell easily beneath his blade. The Sindar ran at the enemies around his son, the enemies who had killed his wife and taken his youngest. They would not take another son away from him!One orc lost his head and another had been stabbed through the chest before they had realized what had happened. The other two turned to meet the new threat but the Elvenking cut them down, shrieking an ancient battle-cry of the Silvan Elves.Invigorated by their King's sudden strength, the elves quickly dispatched of their enemies, the orcs falling to the elven blades and bows swiftly. Soon, the three-to-one odds had been turned, and one final orc— a captain based on the design of his armor and helm— lay gasping and dying on the forest floor. Grim-faced, the guard captain strode forward, intending to end the creature's life. Thranduil's order made him halt in his tracks."Wait. We can question him." Thranduil said. The Elvenkingstared down at the orc for a long moment and spoke, voice as firm as he could make it. "What have you done with Legolas?"The Orc Captain stared at the elf, eyes flicking up to look at the crown of twined wood and leaves he wore. Then, the orc began to laugh. His laugh was terrible, grating and horrific, grinding against the ears of the elves almost as terribly as a Nazgûl's shriek. After laughing for a full minute, the orc looked back at Thranduil, eyes glinting with malice."The tree-rat child is dead." the orc sneered. "He's been dead for years." The orc stared at the golden-haired Elvenking, leering openly at the Sindar. "He was so confident that you were going to rescue him but you never came." the orc continued in a mock-saddened voice.Thranduil's face grew steadily paler. "Shut up." he whispered, voice too soft for even his fellow elves to hear."We were able to have fun with him for days." the orc smiled, revealing crooked yellow teeth. "Screamed like a stuck pig, he did. Calling for his "Ada".""Shut up." Thranduil repeated, this time loud enough for all to hear. His hand was clenched, white-knuckled around his sword hilt.The orc began to speak in a high, mockingly scared voice. ""Help me Ada. Don't let them hurt me! Please Ada, where are you? Please make them stop!" One of the men got annoyed with his shrieks. Cut out his tongue he did—""Shut up!" the Elvenking snarled, eyes darkening and voice shaking with rage.The orc smirked at him, eyes glinting with cruel malice. "It was satisfying to see the hope in his eyes fade. I almost felt bad for him." His voice and face revealed the lie in his words. "It took the poor little tree-rat a while to realize Ada wasn't coming. I saw it when he broke. Those pretty little silver-blue eyes went blank, and he gave up. He didn't fight us anymore. It isn't any fun when they stop screaming, so we slit his throat, and watched him bleed out, writhing on the floor—""SHUT UP!" Thranduil screamed, lunging forward and stabbing the orc in the chest.The beast laughed even as blood trickled from his mouth, mocking eyes locked with the Elvenking's pain-filled ones. "You... didn't... come..." he gasped with a smirk, and went limp.Thranduil stood next to his dead enemy for a moment, legs trembling violently. He stared mutely at the dead orc, vision blurring with threatening tears. With a cry, he collapsed to his knees, hands pressed to his face and shoulder shaking with silent sobs. "He's gone..." he moaned. "He's gone..."The warriors and Tollui were silent, postures stiff and eyes wide as they tried to comprehend what they had just been told. In the middle of their group, Barhad was crying silently. He wantedc to go to his father to comfort him— and to receive comfort in exchange— but he could not make his legs move. He felt like he had become stone, immovable and cold, but was somehow also ice, and would shatter like glass if touched.In the distance, thunder boomed, covering the sounds of the Sindar's grief with a loud crescendo of noise. Thranduil looked upward, up at the dark cloudy sky, and blinked as the first drops of rain fell. Soon enough it began to pour, the ground growing muddy and wet as the drops made their way through the sparse canopy of trees."Are you crying, Luineth?" he whispered, as the rain drenched his long golden hair. "Are these your tears?" His shoulders shook in another sob and he bowed his head once more, the rain hiding the tears running down his face. "All these years I clung to hope. I thought that I could save him, that he would live long enough to be saved. I promised you I would rescue him. I failed. Legolas is dead." The father closed his eyes, weeping until his eyes stung, his own words echoing in his head.I failed. Legolas is dead.I failed. Legolas is dead.I failed. Legolas is dead. They killed him. Ringwraiths, Orcs, and Men. Theykilled my son.Before the eyes of his son, adviser, and warriors, Thranduil Oropherion changed. His eyes grew hard and cold, his back stiffened, and all joy and kindness left his face. He stood slowly, staring down at the dead orc with hatred in his gaze. He spun away from the corpse, back straight and strides commanding. He was no longer a grieving father, but a detached warrior King. When he spoke, his voice was harsh, filled with a rage and conviction no one had heard for eighty years."Let's go."Two words, which might have once been said with calm command or quiet sadness, only conveyed the order that they were. It was the voice Thranduil used whenever he led his people in battle, a voice that demanded that all who heard it obeyed. Silent, the warriors, adviser, and Prince followed the stiff-backed King into the forest.Looking at his leader, Tollui was afraid. There was no more hope or grief in Thranduil's eyes, all thoughts hidden in the stormy blue gaze. His face was emotionless, and and the weakness in his stance was gone. His posture was stiff and strong, portraying aloofness and confidence. He looked like Thranduil, King of Mirkwood.To the casual observer, it might seem like a good thing. In truth, it was far from good. Riding next to Tollui was the Thranduil he saw whenever foreign dignitaries came to Mirkwood, the Thranduil that needed to be the image of power and strength. The adviser had seen this mask many times before, and would not have been bothered by it... if they were in a circumstance that required the King to use it. The only people around now were trusted warriors, the adviser, and Barhad. There was no reason for Thranduil to put on his kingly mask.Except it was not a mask. Tollui could see that, and it terrified him. Thranduil had become ice, coldness creeping into his soul so strongly that his aloof, cold, detached mask had become him. The grieving husband of Luineth, hopeful father of Legolas, and struggling elf of Mirkwood was gone.All that remained... was the Elvenking.LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: Thank you for all the wonderful reviews for last chapter! Responses to Guest reviews:To "Issy": Thank you! I can't make any promises about a reunion being "soon".To "Lys": Thanks!To "Guest": Yeah, I guess it was evil. Thank you!Please review! Let me know what you thought of this chapter!


********** Page 5 **********

Chapter Four: Village by the SeaThird Age 2626 (385 years ago...)Legolas walked leisurely amongst tall, green leaved trees. He moved over fallen leaves and through brush like a ghost, leaving no prints or trace as he passed. The elf was in a forest in north-western Eriador. His destination was a small village called Blue Harbor. It was distant but busy, a village of trade that flourished near the sea. It was one of the many places he had decided to visit since leaving Mirkwood. He had nowhere specific to go after all, and nowhere to truly call "home". The closest thing he could call "Home" was Mirkwood, and Legolas could not bring himself to return to the shadowed forest yet.The last time Legolas had been in Mirkwood was the day he buried Ciaran. After wandering past the river that divided the most plagued part of the forest from that which was still defended by elves, the assassin had laid his father to rest beneath a large oak tree at the river's bank. He had needed no grave-marker, for the boughs of this oak were unique. They swept upward and curled about like a spiral, reaching up to the sky in a beautiful array of wood and leaves. The oak had promised the elf that it would watch over Ciaran's grave, making sure no one— be they elf, orc, or animal— stumbled upon and desecrated it. Legolas had thanked the tree and sat beside Ciaran's grave for a long while, singing songs of grief in a voice almost too soft to hear, alone in the woods except for the saddened trees.The pain had been too much for the elf to bear. He could not bring himself to even think about exploring Mirkwood, the forest which held Dol Guldur and where Ciaran died. There were too many memories, vivid ones of Ciaran and vague ones of Legolas's mother that faded quickly and made his head ache. So the assassin had left the forest. He had not returned to Mirkwood since. Every other place had been explored, but Mirkwood had been avoided.He had reveled at the White Towers of Minas Tirith, braved the mines of Moria, and been awed by the horsemanship of the Rohirrim. He had watched the merry hobbits of the Shire, sneaked into the Hidden Valley, and spoken with the Ents of Fangorn and the golden trees of Lothlorien, who had been quite perplexed by the elf that did not glow. Legolas remembered his first encounter with the purest trees in Middle-earth clearly two years after he left Mirkwood.Flashback:Lothlorien was everything Legolas had imagined it would be. The forest was a brilliant mix of gold, silver, brown and green, every tree and branch seeming to glow with its own light. Even without touching them, the elf could hear the peace and contentment of the trees, their voices murmuring softly in the back of his mind. He knew that if he allowed it, he could hear their words from miles away. But the assassin was afraid. He was afraid to connect with such purity and beauty. Legolas could not help but tremble as he approached the beautiful trees, staring up at the healthy boughs and bright leaves with wide eyes. Slowly, he lifted a hand, pausing a hairsbreadth away from touching the closest tree— a birch. What if the trees rejected him?That terrible nagging fear that he was tainted rose up within the assassin once more, making him tremble. He kept his mental shields firmly in place, blocking out the trees' voices as much as he dared. Their murmurs brushed at the edge of his consciousness, and he could tell they had not sensed him yet. How could they not, when he stood right beside them?Hesitantly, Legolas laid his hand on the smooth bark of the tree, opening up his mind to the forest. Instantly, a thousand warm voices sounded in his ears, surprised but welcoming him. The light trees' voices were so much different than those of their shadowed kin. These trees sang of the forests, earth, and stars, filling the air with melodies of beauty and grace. Legolas found himself pulled into the peace of the forest, nature's song filling him with feelings of warmth and joy. Then he sensed a tiny undercurrent of worry from the trees. The elf realized that the trees of Lothlorien were all-too-aware of the lurking shadows outside their borders. The light trees were upset about the creeping darkness, and frustrated that they could not do anything except protect the elves beneath their boughs. While able to communicate with elves, the light trees could not "fight" as efficiently as their shadowed kin. They could drop boughs on enemies, shelter elves in their embraces, and warn the elves if any orcs were approaching, but they could not lash out with their limbs and kill like the shadowed trees could. Not anymore.The light trees knew that their power— and the power of the elves they protected— was slowly waning. The darkness threatening Middle-earth was draining them like a slow, terminal sickness. They would last for a long time yet, but they might never regain their former vitality and strength. And that terrified them. Legolas had barely comprehended all that he had discovered before a deep voice sounded in his mind.You are a Wood-Elf, a towering oak stated. Only a Wood-Elf can hear our voices so clearly.I did not mean to pry, Legolas said, uncertain if he had unintentionally invaded the trees' privacy by hearing their innermost feelings and thoughts.Deep, light, and soft chuckles echoed in his mind and ears, the trees' joy and slight amusement making his worry vanish.Worry not, young one, the oak tree said. It is a pleasant surprise to meet a Wood-Elf here. We have not spoken with Wood-Elves in over three hundred years. The last time Wood-Elves came, they were too busy to stop and speak with us.Legolas mulled over this for a moment before speaking once more. I am a Wood-Elf then? He asked cautiously.Yes, The oak tree said simply. Although your aura is curious. Where is your inner glow?The elf shifted uncomfortably, suddenly feeling threatened and exposed. I am hiding it.The tree must have noticed his sudden tension because it changed the subject. What is your name, Wood-Elf?He was quiet for a long time, wariness clear in his violet eyes. ...Legolas. He admitted at last. My name is Legolas.Legolas... the oak tree murmured softly. It's limbs twitched and swayed as it tried to recall a distant memory. It had heard that name somewhere before... It is a pleasure to meet you, Legolas.The trees noticed the elf's slight twitch as the oak tree said his name, and saw when he glanced around nervously, as if checking to see no one but them was around. Through those small signs, the trees could easily see that the special elf did not want his name to be spoken freely, and perhaps did not want to be discovered. They could sense he was not an elf used to being among his own kin.Since he was on the side of good and truly was an elf of nature despite his lack of a glow, they would respect his wishes. The trees would not speak of him to other elves, only whispering to each other too softly for none but the most attentive Wood Elves to hear. The trees were prepared to take any precaution to protect and hide this young Prince, for they could sense that he had Royal blood. The trees did not know if that was the reason Legolas did not want his elven kin to know where he was. They would not mention his bloodline even to ask him about it. This uncertainty about Legolas's reasoning meant that not even the Wood Elves should hear his real name. But what should they call their Greenleaf? What should they name the one who desired to remain hidden? Hidden...Esgal, the trees whispered, voices softer than the wind. We shall call him Esgal.Legolas heard their whispers but did not speak, accepting the name. Being called "Hidden" was all right with him. He did not want his real name to be spoken openly, even by the golden trees. It was better that the elves who resided in Lothlorien only heard vague whispers of "Esgal" rather than "Legolas". "Hidden" could be passed off as the trees speaking of something other than a person. "Greenleaf" was more likely to be seen as a name, and a name meant an elf was there, in the forest. Legolas did not want to encounter his elven kin. Not now, and not any time soon. He was not comfortable with the thought of meeting his own kind. Not yet. He had to know more things about the world— and himself— first.Flashback end.Legolas had explored the forest as thoroughly as he dared during the seven times he had visited it. Once he had gone close enough to the home of the Lord and Lady of the Light to see the two elves standing guard over the city. He had quickly surmised that the two were either close friends or brothers as their quiet teasing and joyful conversations reached his sensitive ears. The elves seemed friendly, open, and light, yet Legolas still could not bring himself to go any closer or reveal himself to them.He journeyed through Rivendell with the same caution. The realm was just as peaceful and beautiful as Lothlorien, the elves as joyful as their kin. Legolas could not help but feel happy and slightly angry at these elves, who were safe while Mirkwood struggled against Dol Guldur and the darkness. Still, he decided that it was worth fighting the shadows so that others could live in peace. He just hoped it would last.Although Legolas avoided elven company, he was not without interactions with others. The assassin would often travel to smaller human settlements, like Bree, with the occasional visit to larger ones. Large cities were only entered by sneaking in. Known by the name "Brian", in honor of Ciaran's son, Legolas could easily find the odd job in villages, from helping on farms or in bars to killing orcs and Wargs that plagued the area. Legolas was unsure whether the villagers he encountered knew he was an elf. He doubted it. Most likely they believed he was a Ranger.He wore a cloak of mottled green and brown, which made him blend easily into the colors of the forest. His hood was always up, covering his hair and ears, and a cloth covered his face so that only his violet eyes were showing. He wore his bow and elven daggers openly, but had an assortment of other weapons on his person, hidden skillfully so that only the most thorough search would uncover them.Abruptly, the soft forest air was replaced by a breeze that carried the smell of salt. Legolas halted in his walking, turning to his left where the unexpected wind had come from. The elf turned, abandoning his previous path ad he moved through a thick patch of tall bushes. His path now cleared of foliage he paused, breath catching in his throat. A few steps in front of him the land ended, swooping down into a steep cliff. And at the bottom of that cliff... was the sea.The sea was a giant basin of water, going further than the eye could see. Its blue waves struck against the cliff with great strength and might, sending spray and whitish foam flying into the air. The sun's light shimmered on the water, sparkling and rippling like a thousand gentle lighting bolts dancing in a deep blue sky. Gulls flew overhead, calling out to each other shrilly as they soared over the churning waves. The elf stared at the sea for the longest time, breath taken by the beauty and awe of the ocean. He breathed in the salty air, listened to the gulls calls, and watched the waves beat rhythmically against the cliff face.The sea is beautiful, he thought, awed.For a moment longer Legolas watched it. Then he turned away. Unaware of the sea-longing that should have claimed him, unknowingly protected by the mental shields he had in place, Legolas continued on towards his destination.LOTRLOTRLOTRLegolas had heard many things about the small trading town called Blue Harbor. He heard that it was so friendly that there were no guards, anywhere. He heard that even Southrons and Easterlings would be welcome without question. He had been informed it was a happy, cheerful little town that happened to be quite wealthy and successful.The town he came upon was anything but.As per habit, Legolas stuck to the shadows and observed the gate that was the only entrance to the town. Well, it was the only entrance for most people. Two men stood guard outside the wooden gate, swords worn openly and scowls on their faces. Legolas studied them with a trained eye, not liking what he saw. The two men were muscular and mean-looking, glaring menacingly at any travelers who approached and fingering their swords threateningly. With a glance, the elf could see the guards were used to pushing people around.That is not the warm welcome I had been told to expect, Legolas mused. Perhaps remaining hidden would be best.The elf circled around to the side of the town, studying the tall wooden wall for a moment before running at it. With casual ease he leapt halfway up the wall, finding grips and leverage in the seemingly smooth wood as he swiftly climbed the rest of the way. Reaching the top, he avoided the stakes on top of the wall by flipping over them, landing softly in an empty alleyway. Straightening his cloak and pulling up his hood, Legolas walked into the main street.His drawn hood did not gain him a second glance as rain began to pour from the sky. He discreetly began to observe the people around as he wandered, looking like a man who knew where he was headed. The villagers' moods were surprising. Unlike other trading villages, which bustled with cheerful activity, this was was nearly silent.The buildings were worn and old, many crumbling and looking like they needed to be torn down. The streets were cracked, more mud than cobblestone, and had the sharp tinge of unhealthiness. The shops were shadowed and dim, old, faded signs hanging from rusted chains. It looked more like a ghost town than a trading village. The people were hardly better.The villagers avoided each other as they went about their business, not stopping to talk or interacting with those they passed in any way. They only went to the store they desired, bought what they needed, and hurried away. It might have been the pouring rain that caused such a dour mood, but Legolas had a feeling that the weather was not to blame. People scurried about like terrified mice, heads down while they cast suspicious glances at each other.They are afraid, Legolas thought. Why? The elf considered ways he could gain information but paused mid-thought. Why am I even getting involved? Why these humans were afraid has nothing to do with me.Yet he could not deny that he wanted to help them. Not every problem in the world involved orcs and battles, and the elf could not bring himself to not care about this many people's welfare. That was just who he was.Ciaran always said that Legolas was too compassionate and caring, trying to fix things that were not his duty to fix. When a much younger Legolas had asked how he could fix anything in Dol Guldur, his mentor had softly chuckled and said "You fixed me." Because of this piece of his character, Legolas did not know whether he hunted and slayed orcs for vengeance for Ciaran in a personal war against Sauron or because he wanted to protect the Free People of Middle-earth by killing the monsters. Either way, the assassin was finding himself getting involved in something that had nothing to do with him.Giving in to his nature, Legolas found his way to the town's tavern. Taverns were always good places to start looking for information. Men's tongues were always loosened by ale and their voices carried in the small confines of the bar, easy enough for elven ears to hear even if they lowered their voices. The elf ordered a tankard and sat in a shadowy corner, able to see and observe the entire room.There were twenty patrons in the tavern, including farmers, tradesmen, fishermen, and a couple foreigners. "Foreign" meaning that they were not from the town. Those who were not natives to Blue Harbor were rather shifty-eyed and wary, glancing around and nursing their drink with slight hesitance as they tried to take in the new sights around them. Legolas took small sips from his tankard, the alcohol not affecting him in the least— he could not get the slightest bit drunk— listening to the other patrons."—wife just had a baby. Screaming little thing he is. The tyke's up all night bawling. I haven't had a blink of sleep in weeks.""Of course he's crying. He's a baby. That's what they—""—can't understand why she's marrying him. He's a ruddy stable-boy! A stable-boy! Surely she can do better—""—tell the truth I'm nervous about how this is going to affect my business. We all know that Drust is a dangerous man. Once the old man dies and his son becomes mayor, this town's gonna become even more of a hell than it already is."And there it was. Legolas focused on this conversation, interest piqued."Quiet, Abelio." a second male voice whispered, though the assassin could still hear them clearly. "Drust has ears everywhere."The first man— Abelio— scoffed angrily. "Of course he does. Ever since Mayor Morcant got sick, little Drust has brought back this town's dark ages. I thought things were going good after the mayor had a change of heart and became less... corrupted.""He lowered the taxes, lifted the guards, and made this an honorable city," the second man said sadly. "My grandfather told me about that.""But now Morcant is dying," Abelio said in a soft and foreboding tone. "Drust has already hired those thugs he calls guards. It will only become worse when Morcant dies.""Why can't we just arrest Drust?" the second man whispered. "Everyone knows he's ordering people's deaths and that his thugs threaten people. Hell, he's raised the taxes past the legal limit and he's been poisoning his father!""Hush!" It was Abelio's turn to shush his friend. "Do not speak of that. It's dangerous.""Everyone knows it." the second man muttered, almost sulkily."Yes. But there's no proof of Drust's misdeeds. He's too sneaky and underhanded." Abelio sighed, almost too soft for Legolas to hear. "We'll just have to wait it out. If there's one thing this town is good at, it's surviving."The assassin had heard enough. Finishing his tankard, he paid the barman and left the tavern, reentering the pouring rain. The large building in the center of the village was obviously the mayor's house. That was his next stop. Legolas stayed with the crowds as far as the edge of the marketplace, then vanished into the shadows.He approached the house— more like a small palace— from the east side, eyebrows quirking upward at the sight of the tall stone wall that surrounded the place. It looked like it belonged in a large city, like Minas Tirith, to hold against large armies. Legolas had the sinking feeling that that was what this wall was for. To keep armies— both enemies and rebelling villagers— at bay. Along with that, it would also allow the palace to remain standing while the rest of the village burned. To say the least, the elf was liking this town less and less.The elf scaled the stone wall without any trouble— the guards were idiots— landing neatly in a beautiful garden. Any other time, Legolas might have been happy to see such a wonderful place of nature in a human village, but now he was just angry. Of course the inhabitants of the castle could afford luxuries while their people starved.The elf looked up at the castle, picking a window to enter through at random. It was on the second floor, far from any of the lights that revealed that people were inside. He climbed the wall— Were the builders unaware of siege-defense or was he just that skilled?— stopping outside the window. A quick scan of the dark inside showed no one was there. Unsheathing a thin blade, he slipped it between the space in the panes and lifted the lock, entering the palace. His feet made no noise as he crossed the room, halting at the door and listening for any passing people outside. Hearing none, he exited, glancing around the sparsely candle-lit hallway.A moment later he had slipped back into the shadows cast by an indented door frame, watching two guards walk by. After a moment's thought he began to follow them, listening in as he tried to discern where in the castle they were headed."I don't see why Lord Drust has us patrolling here of all places," one of the guards was complaining. "No one's in this section except the old man."The other guard chuckled, smirking at his partner. "Maybe our Lord expects an assassin to come finish him off. How terrible that would be!"They both laughed with cruel amusement, not caring in the least about their Lord's father's well-being. Legolas glowered at them from the shadows, enraged by their blatant disrespect to a man who was their elder. The guards halted outside a simple wooden door on the far side of the hallway, the complaining one opening it, looking inside, and shutting it."Still asleep. Fool. I hope he doesn't wake up."With that the two left, but their shadowy stalker did not follow. The elf stood outside the simple door, staring at it. He wondered who the "old man" was. Could it be Morcant, or was it someone else? Curiosity getting the better of him, the elf entered the room,Legolas found himself staring at a man lying in a bed. The man was old, his face carrying more wrinkles than there were stars in the sky. His eyes were barely visible beneath thick white eyebrows, his back was hunched terribly and his beard reached the middle of his stomach. His face was pale and sickly, his skin almost blending into the white sheets that covered him. Legolas stared at him, unable to look away. If Ciaran had lived, would he have eventually looked like this? Withered, pale and old?Old age was one thing the elf could not fully comprehend. While elves grew more beautiful with age, men, dwarves, and hobbits slowly wither away. They lose their strength, their minds, and after a few decades, their lives. Mortality was the Gift of men... but so many men feared it. Legolas feared it. It hurt to think that all mortals he befriended would eventually wither like this and die. Disturbed, Legolas turned to leave the room, hand resting on the door. Behind him, the old man stirred, waking, and peered at the blurry shape in the shadows."Ciaran?"Legolas froze, mind going blank. What?!"Ciaran?" the man repeated hopefully, voice raspy and shaking. "Is that you?"Unsure of what to do or say, Legolas remained still and silent, not turning to look at the man.Seeing this as a confirmation that he was Ciaran— How did the old man know his mentor?— the man spoke. "It's been a while. Over a hundred years, in fact... since you left. Since I— Since I forced you to leave." The old man coughed and Legolas found himself stepping forward, only to freeze again as the old man's half-blind eyes focused on him. "I'm glad you're back. I'm so happy you came back to me... before the end. I didn't think you would after what I said and did."Legolas still did not speak. He could not leave, and let the old man think Ciaran was still angry at him. He also could not tell the man that he was not Ciaran, and that the assassin was dead. The more Legolas studied the old man, the more he noticed something familiar about him."I managed to do it, you know." the old man whispered. " I changed myself and this village. I made it an honorable, lovely place. Just like you asked. I became a man worthy of being mayor."As Legolas looked into faded hazel eyes, he quickly realized three things. One: This was the mayor, Morcant. Two: This man was Ciaran's father. Which led to three: Drust was Ciaran's older brother?! The elf had been told stories of Ciaran's youth and family, and how his father and brother were... shady men. He also knew of every trial and test the man's father had put him through while training him to be an assassin. "Training me to take out his enemies," Ciaran had said. But the assassin had never said any names. He did not tell Legolas what town he came from, or the names of his father and brother. No, instead he had focused on Eithne and Brian, and the happiness he experienced there. So this... was very unexpected.To say Legolas was stunned was an understatement. Here he was, in a shady town that happened to be Ciaran's birth-town, talking to the man who ruthlessly trained his mentor-turned father, apparently had a change of heart, and happened to be Legolas's adopted grandfather. If the elf had been weaker he might have needed to sit down. As it was, he stood absolutely still as Morcant continued to speak, panting from the effort."My point is... I just wanted to say... I'm sorry." the man whispered. Tears shone in his deep and faded hazel eyes. "I'm so, so sorry, Ciaran. I'm sorry for what I did to you, I'm sorry that I rejected you and tried to hurt that Eithne girl, I'm sorry I failed you, I'm sorry."His voice held pained grief Legolas could not fully comprehend. The cruel man Ciaran had described in his stories was nowhere to be found. Instead, the elf was faced with a grieving man who had too many regrets in his life and not enough time to fix them. Looking at him, the assassin felt nothing but sadness. Ciaran was not around to forgive his father... so it was up to Legolas to do it in his place."I forgive you." Legolas said softly, but loud enough for the old man to hear.Morcant looked at him with half-blind eyes, the stress lines on his face softening and a relieved smile forming on his lips. "Thank you... my son." His eyes closed, and he breathed his last.Unsure of what to do, conflicted unable to bring himself to grieve, the assassin left. He made it four steps before he stopped, staring blankly at the wall. After a moment's thought he smirked, laughing at the irony. I'm off to prove my tyrant of an "uncle" murdered my "grandfather", Legolas thought without an ounce of humor. Let's get to it then.LOTRLOTRLOTRLegolas had never seen a more disgusting human than Drust. The man was not ugly or disfigured, mind. His ugliness came from within. Indeed, Drust could be seen as handsome by many maids, with his jet black hair, neat jawline and pretty brown eyes. But it took only a moment for Legolas to spot the cruelty in those seemingly-kind chocolate orbs. After years of being surrounded by such cold gazes, they were easy to spot for the elf. Added to the fact that the man absolutely seeped arrogance, apathy, and mercilessness like a a noxious fog and the assassin did not like him one bit.The man was in what could be called the throne room, standing before the throne— Yes, he had a throne. You would think he was the leader of a country! Arrogant fool.— and looking down his nose at a quivering servant."He is dead?" Drust asked in a deep, resonating voice that commanded obedience or else."Y-Yes My Lord." the servant whimpered. "Mayor Morcant passed away."Drust turned away from the servant so that he could not see his smirk. In his vantage point in the rafters however, Legolas did. "It's about time," the man said. "Stubborn bastard."Legolas may not like Morcant for what he did to Ciaran, but he still felt the urge to punch his "uncle" in the face. He resisted the urge. Barely."Father's position has been left to me now," Drust said coolly. "All of his power and privileges are mine..." The smirk became a triumphant smile. "For the first time since my dear brother rebelled and ran away, this city will be right again! I will be the one in power, and all shall fear me, like they once did my father!" A disgusted look came over Drust's features, his smirk falling into a scowl. "Father grew soft in his old age. He actually lowered the taxes that the peasants had to pay and gave them rights. He made black market deals illegal, and removed the guards from throughout the city. All because dear Ciaran disagreed with him and fled. Good riddance I say."Legolas glared darkly at Drust from his vantage point, not liking his tone. The poor servant was merely nodding along with everything his master said, wanting nothing more than to be dismissed and wondering why the new mayor was saying all this to him. The assassin hiding in the shadows felt very bad for the terrified man."Still, all of that training and skill, wasted!" Drust spat. "I always knew Ciaran would be a failure. A flawed, naive bastard, that's what he was."Legolas's violet eyes narrowed dangerously. He flexed his forearm, a small, lethal throwing dagger slipping into his palm. For a moment he considered throwing the weapon at Drust — Only close enough to scare him. Even though he was a murderous traitor, the elf could not just kill Ciaran's brother.— but banished the idea. It was better for him to wait, gather information, then act. Drust seemed like the type to monologue his entire life story and admit all his crimes to someone who dare not tell anyone.Sure enough, Drust began boasting. "It was amusingly easy to acquire poison to put in my father's food. I am quite good friends with the town potions master. But everyone will believe dear father died of old age. Its perfect!" The man paused in his gloating, turning to look at the trembling servant. "But why am I telling this all to you? Perhaps its because there is no one else I can tell... and kill without question."Before his sentence was finished Legolas was moving, leaping down from his perch behind Drust and holding a dagger to his throat. The servant found himself facing a green-brown cloaked figure, his face veiled in shadows. The man spoke softly, focused on the traitorous man he held at knife-point."Get out of here."The servant needed no more prodding. He fled the castle, grateful to the mysterious stranger and terrified of what Drust would do if he survived the encounter with the cloaked man. Back in the throne room, Legolas could hear Drust's heart hammering loudly in his chest, the fast, frantic beat betraying fear where his expression did not. He opened his mouth and—"Call for the guards and I'll slit your throat," Legolas said darkly.Drust's mouth snapped shut. "Are you going to kill me?" the man asked in a steady voice.While he was many negative things, a coward Drust was not. Legolas could admit that at least. "I am not an executioner, kinslayer." he said softly. "You will be tried and convicted."Drust chuckled, a dry, mocking sound. "Oh really? And how will you get proof? I will never confess and that peasant will be too scared to tell anyone what I said."His face hidden by his hood, the disguised elf smirked. "I don't need a confession out of you. You told me exactly where I need to go to get evidence of your crime."The man's voice was calm, but Legolas could see that he had tensed. "You're bluffing. You will find no thing at the potions shop. My friend will not have kept records of our interactions.""You'd be surprised." the assassin said. "Businessmen keep track of everything, even recording more under-the-table transactions. It helps them organize their goods, you see. It won't be hard to find evidence of your purchases. But before I go... there is one thing I think I need to clear up with you."He shifted, cowled face moving close to Drust's ear. Out of the corner of his eye, the murderous new mayor caught sight of a green-brown-colored cloak. Being the man he was, and part of a town in which a lot of humans— and humans only— passed through, he jumped to the first conclusion he thought of.A Ranger! Drust thought, enraged. He's a bloody Ranger!"Ciaran was a greater man than you'll ever be." Legolas hissed and knocked the man out with a swift jab to a pressure point.The elf caught Drust before he could hit the floor, hoisting him into his throne and leaving him to "sleep". He left the castle without incident, found what he required in the potions maker's store, and left the evidence on the law enforcement chief's desk. As much as Legolas may have wanted to see the fruits of his efforts come morning, it was better for him to leave now.Without leaving a sign that he had ever been in Blue Harbor, the elf exited the town the way he had come in, over the wall. Once in the forest he melted into the shadows cast by the night, walking deep into the forest before pausing. He leapt up into the treetops, leaning against the sturdy trunk of a tree. In the quiet of the night, he mulled over all that had happened in the past day. So much had happened. He had stumbled upon a village in need, forgiven Ciaran's father in the man's place, exposed the mayor's murderer and most likely saved the village from itself.But now what? There were so many more places to go, so many sights to see... yet Legolas found that there was only one place he wanted to travel to now. There was one more place he should explore. Decision made, Legolas turned south-east. It was time he returned to Mirkwood.LOTRLOTRLOTRThe next day, Drust was arrested for periodically poisoning— thus murdering— his father, the mayor. The evidence was overwhelming. Letters corresponding between Ciaran's traitorous brother and a shady potions shop— left at the law enforcement's desk before they could be destroyed— pointed all of the fingers at the deceased mayor's son. The trial was done quickly, all of the townspeople wanting the menace gone from their village. Drust and his closest cronies were tried, convicted, and sentenced to banishment from Blue Harbor and the surrounding lands. Returning meant death.As Drust was escorted out of the village and warned to be far away by nightfall, the man seethed. He seethed with rage and thoughts of vengeance, the image of a "Ranger's" cloak stuck in his mind. Everything had been going so perfectly. His father was dead and the village was under his control at last. But that Ranger had come along and ruined everything. His life, his work, his power was all gone. All because of some wannabe-warrior from the North. A bloody peasant had taken his power from him!As he walked stiffly away from Blue Harbor, Drust's anger grew. Curse Rangers! he snarled silently. Curse them all to Hell!His children, his children's children, and even their children would never forget that a Ranger was the one who ruined their family name and Drust's perfect life. They would never forget, and they would never forgive. No matter how long it took, Drust's bloodline would retake Blue Harbor. And any Rangers that stood in their way would pay. They would pay with their lives!LOTRLOTRLOTREdit A/N: Thanks to everyone who reviewed, followed, and favorited this story!Because of my idiotic computer, when I tried to edit this chapter the original author's note that was here got deleted. (mutters angrily to self). Why does technology hate me?Please review!


********** Page 6 **********

Chapter Five: Rising DarknessThird Age 2683 (328 years ago..)Rain poured down from the sky in watery sheets, drenching the forest of Mirkwood below. Legolas trudged doggedly on through the mud, grimacing as wetness seeped through his boots and clothes. He should have found shelter hours ago, when the dark clouds appeared on the horizon, but had been distracted by an orc patrol. Instead of leaving them for a later time, Legolas had tracked and killed the orcs. Now he was paying the price, stuck out in the rain as he tried to make his way to more suitable shelter.Legolas moved along at a slow pace, grumbling softly to himself as he walked through the relentless mud. Elves could walk on snow, but mud? They sunk in mud like everyone else. It was decidedly irritating. The assassin would have preferred running through the treetops, but the wood was too slick and even he might fall from the trees' limbs. The trees around him were unhappy they could not trust themselves to carry him, so they did their best to shield him from as much of the rain as they could. Their efforts helped a little, but Legolas was still drenched. The assassin had a feeling that the Valar were laughing at him right now. With a huff he pulled his cloak— at least it was somewhat waterproof— tighter around his shoulders, determined to make it through the relentless rain. Had the ocean decided to fall from the sky?A soft sound caught Legolas's attention and he paused in his trek, glancing around. Seeing nothing, he tipped his head, listening intently. There it was again— a whimper? The elf followed the noise to a tree with risen roots, a small space open between it's trunk and the ground. He knelt to the ground, ignoring the mud, and found himself looking at a tiny red-furred shape. A fox kit.The little animal shivered beneath the tree roots, staring at Legolas with wide, scared eyes. Its fur was sopping wet, and violent shudders revealed that it was freezing. The assassin's violet eyes softened and he sat in front of the tree roots, murmuring to the kit."Hello little one." he said in Sindarin. "Are you cold?"The fox kit snuffled and tipped its head, stepping forward cautiously. Legolas waited patiently as the tiny animal moved slowly towards him, finally halting in front of his knees. The kit whined, nudging his arm, and the assassin picked it up, cradling it— him— in his arms. Even though the outside of Legolas's cloak was wet, the inside was dry, and the fox kit warmed quickly in his arms."Did your home flood, little one?" the elf murmured to the little animal.The fox kit whined again and snuggled deeper into the warmth of his arms. Legolas's lips twitched in amusement as the small, fluffy tail wagged in content. He stood, the kit still in his arms and beneath his cloak, and continued walking towards shelter."Shelter" was a mass of giant overlapping trees, some of the biggest in Mirkwood. These trees were not quite shadowed, and the elves could still hear their voices, though they were becoming more distant and quiet to normal elves' ears. Their branches and leaves were so wide, and had so many layers, that the ground and limbs under a few levels were completely dry. Legolas could climb almost to the tops of these trees and not get wet. Also, they were in the more remote part of Mirkwood, where not even the elves usually tread. The river ran along the southern side, rapids forming a barrier between him and the darkened lands. He would be safe here.The fox kit still in his arms, Legolas leapt up onto the lowest branch, climbing nimbly up a tree. Not a leaf rustled as he made his ascent, pausing high enough that if someone did happen to pass under the tree, they would not see him. Even though the tree knew this, it shifted its branches to better hide Legolas from below.Thank you, my friend, Legolas told the tree.It silently touched his shoulder in response, choosing not to respond verbally. Legolas hung his cloak over another branch before laying down. The fox kit made himself comfortable on the elf's chest, and both quickly fell asleep.LOTRLOTRLOTRThe sound of rushing water woke Legolas. He sat up and saw the fox kit was standing on the edge of a branch, hackles raised. The elf peered down at the ground and gasped, staring mutely at what he saw. The river was swollen and raging, water thrashing and beating against the trees with an anger only nature could conjure. The water frothed a sickly brown as mud, dirt, and twigs were caught up in the flood, zooming downstream with terrifying speed.Legolas knew he was safe up in the treetops, and dearly hoped no one was down on the forest floor. He picked up the fox kit, who was still alarmed, and stroked his back soothingly. The kit slowly calmed down, eyes closing as he prepared to fall asleep again. A sudden sense of unease snapped both of them awake. Legolas recognized the sickening, uneasy feeling he felt immediately.Orcs!The elf's violet eyes raked the forest floor and surrounding foliage, scanning the area for the creatures. Leaves rustled and he tensed, a confused frown crossing his face. Whatever was there was not an orc. A second later, five elves— four males, one female— burst out from the foliage, one supporting another. They scurried along the edge of the flooded river, racing towards the trees."Up into the trees!" one shouted, leaping up into the boughs of a spruce.Two others quickly followed suit, leaving the injured one and his companion on the ground."You have to jump," the uninjured one was saying.The other elf— he had long reddish-brown hair— lifted his head weakly before saying. "...Can't.""Yes you can," his silver-haired companion said stubbornly. "Thimben! Help me!"The called elf leapt back down, glancing nervously into the surrounding forest. "Fael, they're coming...""I know!" the silver-haired elf, Fael, snapped. "Grab his other arm."Thimben did as he was told and together the three leapt, landing clumsily on the tree limb as the reddish-brown haired elf passed out. Fael gently lowered his companion onto the limb, glaring at the surrounding trees."Bows!" he commanded, and the other three conscious elves drew their weapons.Higher in the treetops, Legolas drew his own bow, narrowing his eyes. He could see the orcs coming towards them, his eyes easily able to see them in the dark. The elves below him were tensely, arrows notched as they waited for their enemies to emerge. Fael shot first, his arrow hitting the lead orc in the shoulder. The creature howled and fell, his kin trampling him as they raced into the open. Five arrows flew straight and true but none of the Mirkwood elves noticed the extra shot, too intent on their own targets. The orcs kept flooding in— this was far larger than a patrol— and soon were firing back up at the visible elves.Below Legolas, Fael was forced to duck as an arrow slammed into the trunk beside him. Only Legolas heard the tree's gasp of pain. As one, the elves began to target the enemy archers, picking them off as quickly as they could."I'm out of arrows." a blonde-haired elf reported.A second later Thimben said, "As am I.""We need to get out of here," Fael growled."We can't carry Lain through the treetops," the last elf— she had black hair— pointed out as she shot another orc."We're going to have to try." Fael said grimly. "Uial, Heled, cover us."The black-haired female and blonde-haired male nodded, shooting sparingly at the orcs that were trying to climb the trees. Legolas watched worriedly as Thimben and Fael lifted Lain between them. He hesitated, crouching as he wondered if he should go down and help. He knew the forest even better than its inhabitants. Maybe he could—A shrill battle-cry interrupted his thoughts, and a mass of elves emerged from the forest, attacking the orcs from behind. The elves perched below Legolas relaxed."Thank the Valar," Heled breathed.The larger patrol of elves made quick work of the remaining orcs. Legolas watched as their leader— a silver-gold haired elf, walked to the base of the tree, glancing up at those they had rescued. "Are you all right, Fael?" he called."I'm fine, Megilag," Fael responded. "But Lain is injured."A glance at the red-brown haired elf revealed his was conscious but dazed."Bring him down!" Megilag called. "Carefully now."Legolas unconsciously held his breath as the injured elf and his companions descended, their perch unnervingly close to the swollen river. The hidden elf could feel the tree's tension as it prepared to catch them if they fell. He laid a hand on the oak's trunk, muscles tense as the elves grew closer to the ground. He breathed again as first Uial, then Heled, then Thimben all made it to the ground. Fael carefully handed his injured warrior to Megilag, balancing carefully on the tree limb. Movement out of the corner of Legolas's eye made him turn, and his eyes widened as an orc rose up behind Megilag. Thimben saw it at the same time as he."Look out!" the blonde-haired elf yelled.Startled, Megilag jerked around to see the orc rising above him, dagger poised to stab down. As abrupt as a blink, an arrow was through the monster's throat. Megilag spun back towards the tree, looking for the source of the arrow. There was no one to be seen. The tree was empty.This slowly registered in the Prince's mind and his eyes widened, staring at the raging river. The river that passed beneath the branch Fael had been standing on. "FAEL!" he screamed.LOTRLOTRLOTREverything happened so fast. One moment Fael was reaching for his brother's hand, the next he had jerked back and plunged into the river, startled by the orc. The elf thrashed in the water, unable to tell which way was up, as he was pulled ruthlessly downstream. All he could see was murky darkness, the brownish water obscuring his vision. He slammed into something, pain exploding in his shoulder as his fingers tingled and went numb.The water was cold, colder than anything he felt before. He could feel his limbs becoming sluggish as the chill sapped his strength. Fael's lungs felt like they were about to burst, his lack of air making his already hindered vision grow darker. He hit another hard object— a rock?— and the air was forced from his lungs, water rushing in. The Prince choked and gasped, more water entering his air-deprived body.He could not move his limbs anymore. He could not even feel them. The blackness was creeping in, overwhelming him and he stopped struggling, limp as the raging water carried him. He was tired. So so tired. He could not fight anymore.Why should he fight? Why should he struggle to survive against odds he could not defeat? Fael could hear his heart pounding loudly in his chest, the beat slowing... slowing... He could feel the blackness taking him. Maybe he should let it. If he did... he would see his mother and Legolas again. Fael blinked, eyes forcing themselves open after a long pause. The shadows were overcoming him. He could not see anymore.Then, the Prince saw a light. It was a small speck, slowly growing bigger as he watched it. Intrigued, Fael reached for the light, hand drifting slowly through the water. The light was getting brighter, closer, and the silver-haired elf could see a figure in its midst. The figure floated towards him, face hidden by the light that surrounded him and was him. For a moment, Fael swore that he spotted a flash of pale blonde hair. He smiled to himself.Legolas...He could not clearly see him, but the silver-haired Prince knew it was his brother. The elf reached for his brother's hand, warmth flooding through him as his younger brother took his hand. Legolas was so warm. Nice and safe and warm...And then they were moving through the water, the light and blackness becoming a blur. Safe with his brother, more content than he had ever been, Fael let the light fade, and allowed the blackness to take him.LOTRLOTRLOTRLegolas burst out from the water, gasping as his head met the open air. He held the unconscious Fael more securely in his arms and swam with the raging current, only resisting enough to keep their heads above water. Most people would have tried to struggle towards the shore, but Legolas waited patiently, allowing the current to carry him and his companion down the river. Struggling would only tire himself out, and the elf knew that an opportunity for a quick escape would show itself. There! A shadowed tree stood on the bank with limbs hanging over the river.Help me, friend! Legolas called.The tree shifted, reacting to his voice, only to cringe away as it sensed the too-bright elf Daelas carried. The tree was approaching fast, the opportunity for safety soon to be out of reach.I know his aura hurts but please, help! Legolas cried, his burden growing heavier.The tree tensed, mustering its strength of will, and let its limbs droop over the river. Swiftly, Legolas reached up and grabbed the limb, the water pulling at him and Fael. Shaking from the close proximity of the too-bright elf, the tree lifted them both out of the water. The assassin could sense its pain. Though it was not touching the too-bright elf, Fael's presence still burned. Despite this, the tree managed to set them gently on safe ground. Once that was done, the tree shuddered and curled in on itself, echoes of pain ripping through it. Legolas touched its trunk gently."Thank you," he said aloud.The tree's limb brushed against his shoulder before going still. Legolas turned to Fael, checking the other elf's pulse. It was weak and fluttery, but still there. Frowning, the assassin bit his lip. Fael had a lot of water in his lungs. If he did not get it out, the silver-haired elf would drown soon. A small yip interrupted the assassin's frantic thoughts, and he turned to see the fox kit scurrying towards him."How did you get here?" the elf murmured vaguely, focusing on his patient.The tiny animal yipped again, this time louder, before letting loose a short bark."Kurama! There you are!" a voice called, startling Legolas.He was on his feet in an instant in front of Fael, one of his knives clutched in his hand with the fox kit held protectively to his chest. Before him was an old man in brown robes. The moment Legolas set eyes upon him, he knew the newcomer was... eccentric. His hair was a wild bushy mess, with twigs and bird droppings matted into the gray-brown locks. Thick eyebrows bunched together as the man saw Legolas."Oh, hello!" he said cheerfully. "I see you found Kurama!"The elf glanced down at the kit, then back at the odd man. "...Is he yours?""No, no." the man said. "He's just one of the creatures of the forest." he peered around Legolas and spotted Fael. Instantly his mood changed, his eyes growing wide. "What happened?""He fell into the river." Legolas said shortly. "I rescued him. His name is Fael."The strange man bustled forward, crouching down next to the elf. "Fael. Fael... I've heard that name." He put a hand to the unconscious elf's forehead, muttering softly in a language Legolas recognized as magical.The elf stiffened. He's one of the Istari. Radagast the Brown?The man— wizard— finished his incantation and Fael coughed, water spewing from his mouth as it exited his lungs. The elf gasped, breathing deeply, before settling into a deep sleep."He'll be fine now," Radagast said happily. "Same spell I used when Spinky fell in the river." he rose to his feet, adjusting his hat before looking at Legolas. "I am called Radagast the Brown, the wizard introduced, confirming what Legolas already knew. "And you are?""Esgal."Radagast nodded, sensing no lie, and clucked his tongue at Kurama. The fox kit leapt out of Legolas's arms, jumping up onto the wizard's shoulder. Radagast peered up at the still-raining sky, frowning."We haven't had rain like this in over five hundred years. Half of the forest is flooded." he glanced at the elf and nodded to Fael. "Carry your friend. You might as well stay with me until the rain stops.""He's not my friend," Legolas said as he picked the silver-haired elf up.Radagast rose an eyebrow at him as he walked through the mud. "Then why did you save him?""...Because I could. I was not about to let him die." Legolas said at last.The wizard looked at him closely, suddenly halting in his tracks. "You are an elf." he stated."Yes." the elf said warily."You do not glow.""Yes."Suddenly Radagast seemed older, wiser, and more dangerous. "The other elves do not know you are here."Legolas tensed. "That is correct."The wizard stared at him with piercing eyes, unblinking. The assassin looked back at him, chin jerking up defensively. Then Radagast relaxed, and the eccentric animal-lover was back. "All right then. Quick, this way!"Legolas followed the wizard through an erratic path only the brown-cloaked man could see, winding through the trees as they grew slowly darker. The elf grimaced slightly as the shadowed trees hissed at the elf he carried. The assassin shushed them in return, patiently asking them to leave the too-bright elf alone. They listened, albeit grudgingly, refraining from lashing out at Fael. Legolas frowned as spider webs began to appear around them. Surely Radagast did not live so close to a Spiders' lair?"The Spiders don't bother me," the wizard said, answering his unasked question. "I live here because I am trying to heal the animals and trees. Many die from the sickness that the Shadow brings. I try to use my magic to heal them but... it is not enough."Legolas glanced at him, saddened by the grief in the odd wizard's eyes. "It is a wonderful thing that you are doing for the forest,"Radagast gave him a small smile. "Yes. I try. I'm not as powerful as Saruman or as brave as Gandalf but I do try. I'm only capable of doing little things. I can't rally armies and defeat hordes of orcs, but I can heal sick animals and assist wounded elves." He gave Fael a searching look before perking up. "Here we are!"Radagast's home was carved in a large tree, pieces of wood representing a roof and sides attached to the giant trunk to represent an odd shack. Legolas entered the house after the wizard, lips twitching at the sight of the variety of animals that were scattered throughout the small space."Set him down here." Radagast said, shooing a couple rabbits off of the bed.Seeing no animal droppings on the space, Legolas set the sleeping elf on the worn mattress."Sit, sit!" Radagast urged, gesturing to a chair. "I'm afraid that I don't have anything to eat or drink right now." He picked up a jar and shook it, its contents rattling. "Well, unless you like birdseed."Legolas laughed softly. "I'll pass, thank you." He looked around the tiny hut, noting the staff up against the wall and the odd assortment of objects lined up on shelves on the wall. Everything was slightly unkempt, just like their owner. Legolas recognized a variety of animal food, along with several herbs that could be used to heal furry creatures. "You really do care about the forest," he murmured softly. "But... if you don't mind me asking... What about your mission?""To help defeat Sauron, you mean?" Radagast sighed, settling down in a chair. Immediately, his lap was occupied by two squirrels, a hedgehog, Kurama the fox kit, and a skunk. The wizard petted the skunk absentmindedly, eyes blank and distant. "I know that I am failing in my mission," he murmured, "But I am in love with the forests of Middle-earth, and cannot bring myself to leave." He turned to look at Legolas with serious eyes. "What about you? What is your purpose here?""I want to help fight the Shadow here," Legolas admitted. "I hunt orcs and Spiders that the other elves miss or dare not.""Hmm." Radagast hummed vaguely. "Why don't you want your kin to know about you? They would be very grateful if they knew about their secret guardian."The assassin looked at him, his violet eyes glowing in the gloom. "You are accepting. They might not be. I am an elf that does not glow, can speak to shadowed trees, and has training they might find... questionable. I am not like other elves.""You fear rejection," Radagast said wisely. "You fear that no matter what you do, they will not accept you, and might even fear you." He hesitated a moment before continuing. "I cannot honestly say that the elves would welcome you with open arms. A tragedy has made them wary of strangers." His eyes grew sad. "The King's youngest son died, and his heart has grown cold. For now, it might be better if you continue to protect them from the shadows. They are not ready for you now."The grief in his voice was so potent that Legolas found himself wondering if Radagast was choosing to avoid the Mirkwood elves as well, or if he had seen a stranger be rejected. If the former was the case, then the wizard was rather brave for letting Fael into his home. If it was the latter, perhaps it was best to remain hidden and anonymous.With this in mind, Legolas rose from his seat. "Perhaps I should be going now, before Fael wakes."Radagast glanced at the sleeping elf, eyes widening. "I believe that is wise. Fael is one of the King's sons. Do not worry, Esgal. I will not tell him your name.""Thank you." Legolas said softly, and exited the house.It was still pouring, and Legolas grimaced as he headed through the rain once more. At least this section of Mirkwood was not flooded. He looked around, trying to figure out where he was. His eyes rested on a dark shape in the distance, visible above the trees. The assassin scowled at the dark fortress. It made him uncomfortable that Radagast lived within seeing distance of Dol Guldur, but that was the wizard's choice.The elf climbed up a tree, careful to keep his balance, and squinted through the pouring rain. The sight of more churning water caught his eye, and the elf could not stop a smirk from forming on his lips. He felt a thrill of bitter triumph and allowed himself to relish in it as he stood in the rain. With nimble movements he descended, deciding to wait out the storm beneath a thick covering of trees that was a half-mile away. The forest was not the only thing that was flooded.LOTRLOTRLOTRAnger. Confusion. Annoyance. Rage.These were the emotions It felt as Its fortress, Its home was flooded with water. If It could, the Darkness would have snarled and lashed out at the water that invaded Dol Guldur, but not even It could fight nature. And so the Darkness merely seethed, Its own anger heightened by the rage of Its master. The Darkness knew why Its master and his kin were angry. Many orcs had drowned in the flash flood that had overcome the fortress. Fifty-six orcs had died. The Darkness knew this because It could sense everything in the Hill of Sorcery, and through It, Its master could as well.The Darkness had once been small and harmless, unable to give invaders anything more than a slight feeling of unease for many years. Then, Its master had come, and through his darkness, the Darkness had grown in strength, gaining a "consciousness" once more. Its master did not truly understand that, but the Darkness did not care. It did not care what Its master did. As long as he did not leave.It remembered what had happened the last time Its master had left It. It had been stunned and wounded, feeling like a fleshling whose limb had been torn off. It had sunk into shock, Its power falling. Because of that shock and weakness, the Darkness had unintentionally affected the evil creatures within Dul Guldur. It had slowed their minds and weakened their wits, letting the two lights that had somehow hidden from It kill them and escape.It had remained in shock until Its master had returned, the limb reattaching to the body. The Darkness had relied too heavily on Its master's presence, and still relied upon it. It was too late for the Darkness to break away and survive without a Dark master to keep It conscious. It was not capable of sustaining Itself anymore. Like an addict, It had drunk in the Darkness of Its master's aura, until It could not remain functional on Its own. It hated and loved Its master because of this.But now It was mostly feeling hate. It could hear Its master talking with one of his kin. Its master was leaving again. This time, permanently. He was moving to a place called "Minas Morgul", leaving his second-in-command Ringwraith in charge of Dol Guldur. The Darkness was not pleased. It refused to be left alone.So when the Witch-King mounted on his dragon-like steed, uncaring about the storm that could not harm him, a large part of the Darkness wrapped around Its master. It would go with him to his new home. It would not be without Its master. It would not be left behind again.LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: Yup. The reason that Legolas and Ciaran got out so "easily" was because the Darkness of Dol Guldur had practically gone into shock or hibernation mode. The Darkness of the fortress had relied on the Witch-King for so long, that when he left it was like a part of the fortress had been wounded and It was left reeling and stunned. So now the main part of the Darkness in Dol Guldur has moved with the Witch-King to Minas Morgul... Sadly, Dol Guldur is still a Dark and Shadowed place. It's just not as overwhelming as it once was.IMPORTANT! READ THIS!: Before you ask, no, Fael does not know Legolas is alive. And no, Fael does not know what Legolas looks like. Fael only saw Legolas "glowing" partially cause he was dying, partially through hallucinations. He really only saw a vague figure with pale blonde hair. He thought he was dying so he expected to see Legolas, and his befuddled mind filled in the blanks (Blanks that happened to be correct) but he did not actually see his brother.Also yes, I named the fox kit after Kurama, the Nine-Tailed Fox Demon from Naruto. (Don't own). :PThanks to everyone who reviewed last chapter! I love you all! :D :DResponses to Guest reviews:To "Issy": Thanks!To "Guest"(1): Thank you for reviewing! You got it! Good job! :DTo "Guest"(2): Thank you! Here's the update.To "lyria": Thanks!To "Guest"(3): Thanks for reviewing! Actually, "Isildur's Curse" never crossed my mind but it totally fits! That's awesome! :D This chapter (Third Age 2683) Legolas is 172 years old. In my story, elves are fully grown around age 125, so Legolas is an "adult" now. I cannot say much else without spoiling anything, but I will say this: you are probably going to see much of what you want to. ;)To "Guest"(4): Thanks for leaving a comment! Congrats on getting the answer. Yeah, its going to be "fun". (evil smile)Please review! Share your opinion!


********** Page 7 **********

Disclaimer: I do not own Lord of the Rings.A/N: For those of you who don't know:Mithrandir is GandalfCurunir is SarumanAiwendil is RadagastLOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Six: "He is Awake"Third Age 2711 (300 years ago...)"Adar," Aglar said. "You do not need to attend this meeting. I could go in your place."Thranduil looked down from his seat atop his horse, considering his son's offer. It was barely dawn and he, Barhad, Bereneth, Tollui, and a patrol of warriors were going to Lothlorien. The Elvenking— along with Gandalf, Elrond, and Saruman— had been summoned by Lady Galadriel to a council meeting to discuss the growing darkness. For a couple years Thranduil had believed the Shadow was actually receding, when Dol Guldur somehow lost much of its evil aura. The Mirkwood warriors had managed to regain some of the land across the river for a time. The forest and fortress had not weakened for long however, and the elves had been quickly pushed back where they had begun.The meeting was necessary, but Thranduil found himself reluctant to go. This would be his first meeting with Galadriel and Celeborn since Luineth's funeral. And he had not seen Elrond for almost two hundred years either. Right after Legolas's capture, the Elf Lord had offered to assist the Elvenking's forces in their search for the youngest Prince. Elrond knew all-too-well what orcs were capable of. He had lost his wife, Celebrian, to the monsters. Not through death, but a loss of her ability to enjoy had managed to stay in Middle-earth for only a few months before departing to the Undying Lands. Arwen had left for Lothlorien soon after that. Thranduil had been a comforting friend to Elrond, his children being the same for the Lord's twin sons, but none of the Royal Family had fully understood what the Half-Elves had been feeling.Back then, the Elvenking had refused his friend's offer. It was too dangerous for the warriors of Rivendell to travel so close to Dol Guldur. They were far from incompetent but in Mirkwood's dark woods it was necessary to know the land well, or risk walking into a trap. The search for the Lost Prince could easily turn into rescue attempts for allies that stumbled into Spiders' nests. Thranduil did not want Elrond to lose warriors to the darkness.The two elven leaders kept contact through the years, but the ever-darkening forest made traveling between their two realms unwise. More and more trees were becoming shadowed, openly attacking elves that were ill-prepared on the road. It was best for outsiders to keep out. Elves would be welcome if they made it through the forest, but other races... not so much.The Elvenking's already wary tolerance of Men and other races had all but diminished after the Orc Captain told him of Legolas's death and cruel Men's part in it. If the trees, orcs, and Spiders did not kill any intruders that were not allies, the elves would be sure to find them and deal with them. Through capture, exile, or death depended on who dared to come to Mirkwood and their actions within the forest. Thranduil still traded with the Men of Laketown, and accepted any Rangers who came by, of course. But if a non-elven person came from the South, from the direction Dol Guldur, and their motives were any bit questionable...The Elvenking shook himself, breaking out of his thoughts to answer his son. "No. I must go. You are perfectly capable of running things while I am gone."The Crown Prince hesitated a moment before he reluctantly nodded. "Have a safe journey, Adar."With that, the Elvenking, Royal twins, adviser, and their guards rode away.LOTRLOTRLOTRNine people— seven elves and two wizards— sat around a large open council chamber that was formed among the golden trees of Lothlorien. Chairs were carved out of the wood, looking as if they had naturally grown there. The participants in this meeting were Thranduil, Tollui, Elrond, Glorfindel, Erestor, Gandalf, Galadriel, Celeborn, and Saruman."We are gathered here to discuss the growing darkness," Gandalf began.All looked at the gray-robed wizard, expressions ranging from seriousness to concern on their faces."What darkness do you speak of?" Saruman said. "I see no darkness here."Without a thought, Thranduil was on his feet, eyes blazing with rage as he glared at the White Wizard. "What darkness? What darkness?! My people are fighting and dying against the darkness! My son and wife were killed by it! And you have the gall to ask WHAT DARKNESS?!"The Elvenking could feel Elrond's restraining hand on his shoulder but ignored it. He was shaking with anger and grief, though rage was the Sindar's forefront emotion. He was almost face-to-face with Curunir, barely noticing as the powerful Istar's hand tightened around his staff."Calm yourself, Thranduil." Galadriel's voice spoke softly in his mind. "You know of Curunir's ways."Indeed he did. Truthfully, the Sindar did not fully trust the White Wizard. He never had, now that he thought about it. Radagast was eccentric and in love with the forest, almost like a friendly neighbor. He helped the elves fight the shadow over Mirkwood, doing little things and warning them if any Spiders or orcs were doing something shady that the elves were unaware of. Thranduil knew that Aiwendil was not the most powerful of wizards, but was grateful he helped where he could. Oddly enough, the Brown Wizard had become a lot more informative and determined to assist them in the past... twenty-eight years? Ever since Fael fell in the river and was found by Radagast, now that the Elvenking thought about it.Gandalf meanwhile was a close friend. He did not take much part in Mirkwood's fight against the darkness, but the Sindar knew that Mithrandir's duties lie elsewhere. Out of the three Istar, Gandalf was the most involved in the fight against Sauron. He was the one who searched for signs of the Dark Lord's return. He was the wizard that seemed to be the most spread out and dedicated, yet still finding time to stop by and say hello to old friends.The Elvenking's only problem was with Curunir. The White Wizard wanted power. He wanted the Free People to be brought under his rule, though he was hesitant to openly go against the will of the Valar. Thranduil could see Saruman's desire for power, hidden beneath a guise of wisdom. The Elvenking could tell that Gandalf could not fully see his leader's greed but did know that Curunir's motives may not all be good. Galadriel, Celeborn, Elrond, and now Thranduil were fully aware of the White Wizard's plans.It was not like they would do anything, however. Saruman held no power over elves, and had no influence in their lands. His plots would not affect them. As such, they would keep their respectful distance from each other. They had been doing that for a while, only meeting when the White Council was called upon. The Elvenking was not a part of the Council. He had not come within miles of Saruman in a long while.Now he remembered why he tended to avoid the Istar. Out of all the Elven Lords and Kings, Thranduil was the most stubborn and attached to Middle-earth. He and his people cared for the land more than their kin, who longed for the sea. As such, Saruman's questionable plots would not be ignored by him. If he could, he would call Curunir out, and reveal him openly. But Galadriel did not want that. He could sense it. Why not?"Curunir may have strayed from his path, but he still has a part to play in this story," the Lady of Light said in his mind. "We cannot antagonize him now. He is still an ally.""Your definition of "ally" greatly differs from mine," Thranduil thought, still glaring furiously at Saruman. "Why don't we warn Gandalf at least?""Mithrandir must keep Curunir's trust... for now." Galadriel told him mysteriously.Knowing he was going to get no more answers from her, Thranduil backed off the slightest bit from Saruman, glare still in place. He returned to his seat, Elrond sitting beside him. The White Wizard's hand relaxed on his staff. Thranduil idly wondered how Gandalf would have reacted if Saruman had decided to use it."I apologize, Elvenking," Saruman said stiffly. "I meant no offense."Liar, Thranduil thought. "Of course not." he managed to choke out."Have you been able to discover the source, Mithrandir?" Glorfindel questioned, moving the meeting along rather than reacting to the tension between two of its members."No." Gandalf stated. "Mordor is still silent. The Witch-King remains in Minas Morgul. His lieutenant is in charge of Dol Guldur. The shadow is growing stronger, and I fear it will not be long until Sauron begins to return to the physical world. He can communicate with his Ringwraiths, but that is all.""But how much longer will that last?" Elrond questioned. "Sauron will return. The only question is how powerful and influential he will be once he does.""As long as the One Ring remains lost, Sauron will never reach full power," Celeborn said. "However, the growing Shadow is a great threat, even without the Dark Lord.""How do you propose we deal with the darkness?" Tollui asked. "What else can we do that is not already being done?""I do not know." Gandalf admitted. "With the threat of Sauron hanging over our heads, any victories we make against the Darkness will be meaningless. As Elrond said, Sauron will return. And until he does, the Shadow will continue to grow. The Darkness cannot be defeated until the time is right, and Elendil's Heir retakes the throne of Gondor.""Then we must do what we have always done." Thranduil said. "We must fight and survive." Why did I even come to this gathering? He thought, looking around. There will be no help for my people from anyone here. Elrond would offer if I asked, I know, but I cannot accept his aid. I will not accept. The shadow in Mirkwood is Mirkwood's problem, and we must fight as we always have. Alone.The meeting went on.LOTRLOTRLOTRBereneth, second daughter of the Elvenking, sat stiffly in a chair in one of the large trees of Lothlorien. She was not comfortable here, in the peace and grace of the Lady's home. She should be at home, fighting for her realm, not stuck around waiting while her father attended a very important meeting. If Barhad had not wished to go to Lothlorien, the younger twin would not be there at all. Ever since the ride that ended with the discovery of Legolas's death, Bereneth had stuck to her brother's side whenever he left the safety of the palace.Yes, he was the older twin. Yes, he was an adult. Yes, he could take care of himself. But the last time he had gone out without her, he had been in a battle he should not have fought in. And he had found out their little brother was tortured to death. Bereneth had heard from her father what had transpired during the unexpected fight. If the Elvenking had not managed to get out of his depression and stupor, Barhad would have died. Bereneth had already lost one brother. She could not bear to lose another, especially her twin.Which was why she was standing there, ill at ease beneath the pretty golden trees of Lotlorien. In her plain green warrior robes and leather armor she felt out of place. This was a place of peace, beauty, light, and joy. She did not like it here. It was too peaceful, too joyful, too light. Why did this place thrive, while her home suffered? How could it remain unchanged, while Mirkwood grew darker every day.As a Princess of Mirkwood, Bereneth knew what was preserving Lothlorien, but it still was not fair. As she thought about it, she felt a flicker of pride. Out of the three elven realms, two were protected by a Ring of Power. Mirkwood preserved through it's inhabitants' wills alone.Perhaps we are stronger than they are, Bereneth thought grimly, almost bitterly. We adapt and love this land while they remain unchanged and long for the sea... She stopped this line of thought in its tracks, chiding herself. Stop that. It is petty to be jealous of them for being untouched by darkness. That is the reason we fight, in the end. To protect Middle-earth so not all of it is overcome by Shadow.Deep down, the elleth knew that she was not envious of Lothlorien's peace, ignorance, and light. She did not feel like the Golden Woods and its elves were abandoning her people, or letting them fight the Darkness while they lived in peace. There was only one person in Lothlorien she was angry at. A single person who had abandoned everything for this realm. She had abandoned her family, friends, culture, and love for Middle-earth in exchange for a new family, culture, and a distant longing for the sea."Bereneth?"The younger twin closed her eyes, not facing the speaker for a moment. Putting on her best diplomatic face, she looked up. Standing there was the last person she wanted to see. The person she had had a grudge against for almost two hundred years, ever since their brother was captured."Hannel." Bereneth said tightly.Her sister stood there in a flowing silver dress, golden hair shining. She was still delicate-looking and calm, the motherly, warm look staying in her eyes. When Bereneth was an elfling, Hannel was always the one she would go to if Luineth was not in the palace. The oldest Princess was the second mother of all of Thranduil and Luineth's children even to Aglar. At least, she used to be. Until Luineth died.If Hannel sensed her younger sister's hostility, she did not show it. She sat down next to Bereneth in the empty chair. "It is good to see you," the oldest Princess said in her soft, lilting voice. "It has been a long time."She was acting as if their last meeting had not ended with an argument. Her dismissal of the past made Bereneth want to slug her. Rather than respond with something very un-Princess-like, the younger sister kept her silence. Luineth looked at her with blue eyes that were the exact same shade as their father's. However, Hannel's eyes showed only their mother's kindness instead of their father's strength. The anger simmering in Bereneth's chest strengthened as she studied her sister. Their was no grief in her posture, face, or eyes. There was no anger or sadness either. There never had been, not even when their mother was newly dead. Did she not care at all?"I did not even know you were here until Barhad told me," Hannel continued, ignorant to her sister's rising ire. "I'd almost think you were ignoring me."If Bereneth did not know any better, she would swear that Hannel was trying to goad her into a fist-fight. Hannel did not goad and did not fight. At least, she did not fight physically. Debates were one of her pastimes, unlike Bereneth who preferred to just stab things with her sword. Hannel was waiting for her to respond, graceful and glowing as she sat beneath the trees. Just like everything else in this forest."You really adapted to the Noldor lifestyle didn't you," Bereneth said coldly before she could stop herself. "So much that you didn't come."Hannel blinked, brow furrowing with confusion. "Excuse me?"Bereneth exploded. She leapt to her feet, chair crashing down behind her. "YOU DIDN'T COME TO LEGOLAS'S FUNERAL!" she screamed in her sister's face. "DO YOU CARE SO LITTLE THAT YOU COULDN'T BE BOTHERED TO SAY GOODBYE?!"Hannel's blue eyes were wide, shock etched into her expression. "What—""WE NEEDED YOU!" the younger Princess continued to shout. "WE ALL NEEDED YOU! BUT YOU WEREN'T THERE! YOU LEFT US!"The older Princess was quiet, looking down at her folded hands for the longest time. Bereneth glared at her, waiting. How would her sister react? With cold aloofness? Quiet anger? Most likely she would lecture Bereneth about shouting and disturbing the peace of Lothlorien when she was an honored guest...When the oldest Princess finally looked up, Bereneth did a double take, the remainder of her anger dying before it could be voiced. Gentle, calm, collected, emotionless, uncaring Hannel... was crying."You're right." Hannel whispered, tears trickling down her cheeks. "I did leave you. I didn't help to try to find Legolas. I left my birthplace to go somewhere better off. I made a new family with my husband and the people here. But I abandoned my family in the process." She covered her face with her hands. "I abandoned you and Ada and our brothers when we needed to be together. I left you on your own when we could have helped each other with our grief. Instead I ran back to Lothlorien. I was never strong. I was never aloof. I always cared. I just couldn't show it. I had to pretend to be the strong one. I had to try to keep things normal. But when you said I was not grieving... There were already too many memories in Mirkwood, and I couldn't handle it. So I left, without returning or saying goodbye. And—" she began to hiccup, struggling to speak through her sobs. "—the next time I heard from my family— it was a letter saying my littlest brother is dead. And I was too much of a coward to return to Mirkwood, even to attend his funeral. I was— so afraid— that you all would reject me. That you would accuse me of not caring again. Luineth was my mother, and Legolas my brother. How could you say that I didn't care, and claim I still don't care? They were my family."The younger sister watched her elder weep. Then, slowly, she set the chair upright once more and sat beside Hannel, wrapping her arms around her and bringing her into a hug. "I never really thought that you were unaffected by grief." Bereneth said. "I was never really angry at you... I was angry at the world, and jealous that you could be so normal and strong when the rest of us struggled with grief. It hurts me that you did not trust me or any of us enough to tell us you were grieving and needed help just as much as the rest of us. You're my sister and I love you. I'll always be there for you, no matter what."Hannel smiled through her tears, now shedding tears of joy. "That means a lot to me, Bere." she said, using the nickname the younger sister had not been called in a long time. "Thank you.""So..." Bereneth said awkwardly, struggling to think of a new topic to address. "Are you and Lachon planning on having a child?"Hannel looked at the ground. When she spoke, her voice was choked. "My husband and I cannot have an elfling."The younger sister froze, guilt and shock overcoming her. "I— I'm sorry—""You misunderstand." Hannel said quickly, though her voice remained sad. "We cannot have an elfling here, on Middle-earth. No elves can anymore."Bereneth remembered her lessons and shut her eyes, shaking her head. "No elflings will be born when the Shadow is too strong. I never really noticed that there weren't elflings running around the city. Not since Legolas—" She stopped abruptly, pressing her lips together to hold back the grief.The two sat in silence for a long time, simply watching the forest."He was the last, you know." Hannel said quietly. When her sister gave her a questioning look she explained. "Legolas. He was the last elfling born in Middle-earth.""When the Shadow is defeated, the time of the elves really will end won't they?" Bereneth murmured."Yes." Hannel said sadly.The younger sister peered at the older, surprised by her sister's tone. "You sound like you don't want to leave.""I don't," Hannel admitted. "Not yet. I may have left Mirkwood but I still love the trees. When the elves' time is truly over, I will sail, but I am not ready to leave Middle-earth now."Bereneth smiled back at her, relaxing fully for the first time since her sister had arrived. Perhaps she had judged Hannel too harshly. The two elleth talked for a long time, the hours passing by unnoticed as the sisters reforged the bond that had been broken so long ago.LOTRLOTRLOTRThe Darkness was annoyed. Its master had left again, and It was not pleased. The separation was not as crippling as the one It experienced in Dol Guldur, but It still hurt and weakened the Darkness. The Darkness hated being weak. It stretched out from Its home in Minas Morgul, straining to find Its master. But Its was too far away for It to reach. Irritation became anger, and if anyone had been around Minas Morgul they would have seen the tower shudder and shake in reaction to the Darkness's rage.Furious and reckless, the Darkness stretched further, savagely seeking for any other Darkness, any evil that could sustain It. It would not lose Itself. It would not let the Shadows It cast fail. Further and further It stretched, pushing, digging, seeking all around for a Darkness It could latch onto. Then, the Darkness felt it. It was distant, tiny and small, almost like it did not exist in this world. But the Darkness could sense it. It was another Darkness. The Darkness was pleased. It had found a new master.Minas Morgul's Darkness attempted to touch the other Darkness, only to find it blocked. Anger reaching its peak— how dare anything keep It from Its master!— the Darkness slammed into the strange shield that surrounded this other Darkness. It bashed against it, raged against it, slamming into it again and again with all of Its strength. Something shifted, something cracked, and the Darkness shuddered as the thing containing the other Darkness broke, a single hairline fracture forming in the strange shield that had tried to hide this Darkness.The Darkness of Minas Morgul reached out, touching the other, distant Darkness. Instantly, power rose within the Darkness, the other Darkness feeding the entity that had found it. There was power, so much power, and the Darkness could not stop, reaching farther, wanting more...And the other Darkness awoke.LOTRLOTRLOTRFar away in Lothlorien, the day after the gathering, Galadriel was watching Thranduil's party ride away, Haldir at her side. The Lady of the Light sighed deeply as she watched the proud Elvenking. "I pray you heart can heal, Mellon-nin." She turned away, walking towards the door. She halted when she noticed the Marchwarden was not following her. "Haldir?"The elf still stood by the window, body rigid and stiff. His fists were clenched at his sides, his eyes were closed, and he did not turn from the window. Concerned, Galadriel walked back to him. "Haldir?"He did not respond. More than a little alarmed, Galadriel tried to touch his mind, flinching as she hit a wall made of odd golden mist and fog. What is this?! Before she could attempt to find out, the Marchwarden's eyes snapped open, gaze distant and blank."He is awake." he whispered, voice rasping and soft.Galadriel looked at him sharply. "What?"Haldir blinked, swaying a moment before his eyes focused. "I apologize my Lady. I must have dozed off. Did you say something?""What did you just say?" the Lady repeated.Haldir looked at her with open confusion on his face. "I didn't say anything."Gently, Galadriel touched his mind again, and this time his thoughts were confused, open, and all Haldir. "Something strange has happened here," she murmured ominously, gaining a wary look from her warrior.Leaving the confused Marchwarden behind, she descended the steps, hurrying to her mirror with urgent grace. Slowly, she poured water into the bowl, gazing down as she searched for answers. She saw no visions, of the future, present, or past. She saw no images of things that might come. Instead there was nothing.There was nothing but Darkness.LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: You know, I was tempted to call this chapter "Saruman Really Deserves to Get Punched in the Face" but decided against it. Hmm. Things happened kinda fast this chapter... at least to me it seemed like they did. Sorry for the super-short sections. They annoyed me but I couldn't figure out a way to lengthen them without revealing stuff I did not want to reveal yet. ;)So, what do you think of Bereneth and Hannel? They were the two OCs I was most worried about introducing. The two sisters are kind of like fire and ice. Bereneth: warrior, bold, speaks her mind, speaks before she thinks, blunt. Hannel: graceful, gentle, soft spoken, hides negative emotions so her family and friends do not worry... :)Thank you to all the wonderful, awesome, amazing people who reviewed, followed, and/or added this story to their favorites list! :DResponses to Guest reviews:To "Issy": Thanks! I love Radagast. :)To "lyria": Thank you! Yes, he will. I won't say when though. ;)To "Guest": Thanks! :DPlease review! Share your opinion!


********** Page 8 **********

Edit A/N: Hi! This chapter has been redone slightly. I realized that my computer corrupted the document before I posted it on the site, so some words were jumbled, some were deleted, and some sentences made no sense. Stupid piece of junk... :( Anyway, I fixed it now! If you see anything I missed, please tell me.LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Seven: Acceptance and RejectionThird Age 2736 (275 years ago...)The forest that contained the haven known as Rivendell was peaceful and calm, even as daylight began to fade into night. The green colors of the leaves darkened in hue and shadows lengthened beneath the towering trees, but a glow still seemed to have a hold on the land, making even the darkest night seem bright.Four elves and four horses were camped in the forest, far from the edge of the trees but not yet at their destination. Three were dark haired, with the two younger ones exactly identical in appearance. The final elf had brilliant golden hair, a sharp contrast compared to his companions and the dark night. One of the identical elves was currently speaking with the golden-haired one, voice soft but persuasive as he spoke."I'm sure that we can make it home tonight, Glorfindel." Elladan Peredhel said, half-pleadingly, half argumentatively. "It's not far to Imladris."The Balrog Slayer rose an eyebrow at the twin, pulling his pack from his horse's back. "It is far enough away that we would be riding until morning. And if we hurried, and arrived in the middle of the night, your father will run out, demanding to know who is hurt and berating me for letting one of you be injured. I'd rather not be lectured for something that did not happen. We will rest tonight, and arrive tomorrow at a proper pace so your father doesn't get any more grey hairs.""We aren't that bad," Elladan protested.The fourth elf, Erestor, looked up from the book he was perusing, eyebrows raised incredulously. "You are." he said simply and returned to his book.While Elladan gaped, indignant, Elrohir ignored the jibe against them, looking around the forest. His silver eyes lingered on each leaf and tree, sadness entering his gaze."Is it just me," he began, interrupting his brother's argument before it could begin. "Or does the forest seem darker?""It's nighttime, Brother. Of course it is dark." Elladan said in a teasing voice, even though he knew that was not what his brother meant.Out of the twins, Elrohir was more sensitive to the world around them. He had gained some of his father's healing and premonition abilities, making him more aware of the Darkness and changes in the world.It was this knowledge that made Glorfindel ask, "Do you sense something?""Other than a distant feeling of dread, there is nothing to worry about," Elrohir said easily.His emotions revealed the lie he told. Elladan could tell through their bond. As identical twins, the brothers had a low-level telepathic link between them. This ability ranged from basic empathy to communicating mentally, depending on their intentions and concentration. Right now, the older twin could sense his brother's unease, like a tingling chill running up his spine. However, Elladan did not mention his brother's concern aloud. If Elrohir thought what he sensed was a valid concern, he would tell Glorfindel."Perhaps it just seems dark compared to the trees of the Golden Wood," the older twin said instead.The four elves from Rivendell were returning from a trip to Lothlorien, where they had visited the twins' sister, Arwen. Travel between the two Ring-protected elven realms was easy enough, and a visit to Arwen had been long overdue. Ever since their mother, Celebrian, sailed, Arwen had remained in Lothlorien with their grandparents. Imladris had held too many memories of Celebrian for the elleth, so she had gone to the Golden Wood to find peace.A part of Elladan had been angry at his sister for leaving, but he was mostly relieved that Arwen had not gone with their mother West. The loss of Celebrian was hundreds of years old, but it still hurt. Elladan sensed his brother's worry shifting, the dread about a distant threat becoming concern for his brother."I'm fine." Elladan said telepathically to his twin.The younger twin looked away from his brother. "Maybe it is the forest," Elrohir said aloud. "There are no orcs anywhere near Daernaneth and Daeradar's realm."Although the Hidden Valley remained hidden— thus the name— from orcs and other servants of Sauron, a few patrols had been spotted in and around the forest that housed Rivendell. Whether they were searching for the sanctuary or were merely passing through, no one knew. Any orcs found were quickly taken care of by Rivendell warriors. Still, the presence of the creatures so close to the secret elven realm was worrying. It was proof that the Shadow's presence was growing steadily stronger in Middle-earth.As he set up camp with his three companions, Elladan forcibly pushed all thoughts of Arwen, his mother, orcs, and other troubling topics from his mind. All that mattered now was sleep, and getting home in one piece. It was true that he and Elrohir had a bad habit of running into trouble outside of the Last Homely House. Well, this time, the older twin was determined to break that streak of bad luck. They were only a few hours from home. Surely they could make it through this trip unscathed.LOTRLOTRLOTRGlorfindel was on watch. The Balrog Slayer sat on a fallen tree near the dwindling campfire, blue eyes scanning the dark forest continually as the night slowly went on. He was the third watch, after the twins had their turns, and had a few more hours until he would wake Erestor for his. The Vanyar was not sure whether he would wake his peer or not. He was not tired, and had no intentions to sleep soon. Personally, he agreed with Elladan that they could have pressed on to the Last Homely House but the forest was more dangerous than it once was.Elrohir was right. The woods were just a tad darker than they had once been. Well, not dark, per say. It was not darkness that made this forest seem more shadowed, it was the worry of the trees. Glorfindel did not need to be a Wood-Elf to sense the trees' fear and alarm. The Shadow was not touching them yet, and most likely would not ever as long as Vilya's power remained, but the trees could sense the darkness closing in on the rest of the world. It scared them, and their nervousness made the forest just a little darker.The fire slowly died, left to its own devises as Glorfindel sighed mutely, sobered by the path his thoughts had taken. Even in Rivendell, the shadow lingered, circling around the haven like a predator in the night. Speaking of predators...Shadows moved in the forest, hulking figures almost invisible among the trees. A feeling of evil and darkness overcame Glorfindel, making him stiffen. Instantly, the Balrog Slayer was on his feet. A hand touching his sword-hilt, the Vanyar crept into the forest, peering through the trees. Only fifty yards from where the elves were camped was a marching horde of familiarly deadly creatures. The elf slowly backed into the camp, eyes staying on the spot where he could see the armored figures. He knelt beside his companions, waking them with a touch and whispering a soft warning in their ears."Orcs!"The three dark-haired elves were fully awake and armed in an instant, facing the same direction as Glorfindel as they all watched the shapes moving beneath the trees. The orcs were far enough away that humans would not have been able to notice them, but their elven eyes could just sight the shapes moving between the trees."How did they get so close?" Elrohir hissed, sounding upset with himself. "I should have sensed them and awoken before this!""That doesn't matter," his brother murmured. "Glorfindel, do we fight or run?"The Balrog Slayer's blue eyes scanned the still-vague shadows, narrowing as he counted the vague shapes he saw. He glanced at Erestor, who held his sword in one hand and a closed book in the other like a shield. The elf was not a fighter. That left three elves to fight however many orcs were passing by. They were skilled elves, yes, but still only three against what looked like a small army."Stay quiet. They haven't noticed us yet. We don't know their numbers and they have the advantage in the night. Get the horses. We'll head north and circle around toward Rivendell. If they follow we'll lose them along the path. Mount up now."Blue eyes pierced the twins, noting the anger on the twins' faces. "We are not fighting."He spoke with the harsh voice of a commander, gazing steadily at the tense twins. The Balrog Slayer knew if he was not firm and stern, the two Elrondion would run after the orcs, regardless of the consequences. Hundreds of years was not enough time for their hunter personas and instincts to fade completely. Elrohir looked away first, walking quietly to his horse. Elladan's lips pressed together angrily before he copied his twin.Silently, the elves approached their mounts, waking them with soothing words and soft whispers. The elven horses stiffened when they smelt the orcs but remained quiet, their nerves only shown by the widening of their gentle eyes. They listened to the elves forever, keeping their silence despite their fear. Still quiet, the elves gathered up their belongings, mounting their horses and galloping away. The pounding of the orcs' feet, covered the sound of their horses hooves on the path. The mulch and dirt muffled the hoof-beats further as the elves fled.After a few minutes with no sounds of pursuit, Erestor relaxed, turning to look at Glorfindel. "Are we safe?"The Balrog Slayer glanced at Elrohir. "I cannot sense their vile presence anymore. You?""No." the younger twin said. "I don't—"A whistling sound ripped through the air and Elrohir's mount shrieked rearing up and throwing the elf from his back. Elrohir went flying, hitting the ground as his mount collapsed, an arrow in her side. Shapes appeared from the foliage like demons in the night, charging towards the elves with savage roars ripping from their throats.Ambush! Glorfindel cursed silently as he slashed at an orc with his sword. They knew we were there!As he fought from atop his horse, who assisted him by biting and stomping any orcs that came near, the Vanyar searched for the twins and Erestor in the fray. Erestor was atop his horse, grim faced as he stabbed and slashed at orcs with all the fighting skill he could muster. Elladan was off his horse and at his brother's side. The twins were back-to-back as they fought the hated enemies around them. How many were there? Thirty? Fifty? Seventy-five? One hundred? Glorfindel could not tell. All he knew was that there were seriously outnumbered.What I wouldn't give for an archer right now... the Balrog Slayer thought as he stabbed another orc in the gut. At least we listened to Galadriel and wore our armor home. Did she know this was going to happen?He spun, slashing another across the forehead before stabbing another in the chest. He yanked his blade out, striking another with his armored fist. His maneuvered his horse closer to Erestor's dismounting and letting his stallion take care of some orcs on his own. The white steed was happy to do so, attacking the orcs with quick stomps and deadly bites. Elven horses may have feared orcs, but they were too loyal and determined to run. So, as it was with many creatures, fear gave way to anger, and the horses faced the ones that terrified them and attacked.Glorfindel left his horse to it, staying near Erestor and watching the scholar from the corner of his eye. The less-combative elf was doing well, his horse more panicked than Glorfindel's but attacking with the same determination as the Balrog's Slayer's and keeping many orcs away from his master. So concerned he was for the scholar, the Vanyar did not know the twins were in trouble until a scream made him flinch."ELROHIR!"Glorfindel turned in time to see the younger twin go down, his head slamming into the trunk of a tree with extreme force. Apparently the twins had been seperated, some orcs forcing Elladan towards the center of the clearing and others making Elrohir back towards the trees. The tree's shocked, horrified cries mixed with Elladan's shriek."NO!"He lunged for the orcs that surrounded his unconscious brother, stabbing and slashing in a frenzy in his attempt to reach his fallen twin. Glorfindel swept in like an avenging angel, mowing through orcs with icy rage on his face. Many of the orcs purposely crowded together between the elves and their injured kin, jeering and unafraid as they faced the two elves' vengeance. Glorfindel could see one of the orcs lifting Elrohir onto his shoulder and running into the woods. A terrible sense of deja vu overcame the Balrog Slayer and terror gripped his heart.No! Not again!He stepped forward, ready to pursue, when Elladan's pained cry drew his attention. The older twin was on the ground, face white, with an orc's sword embedded in his shoulder. The orc jerked the blade free, raising it to finish the job. Glorfindel gave a roar and threw his blade, impaling the orc through the chest. Unsheathing a dagger, the Balrog Slayer slashed a tendon in an orc's elbow, making its sword-arm useless, and retrieving his sword. Standing over Elladan, Glorfindel was a blur, beating back any orcs that came near.The orcs disengaged from Erestor, who was still on his horse with a moderately-sized pile of corpses around him, running off. Those fighting Glorfindel did not have that opportunity. He cut them down. It did not matter if they were fighting or running. The evil creatures had earned the wrath of the Balrog Slayer, and he attacked without mercy.After the final orc fell to Glorfindel's vengeance-fulled blade, the Vanyar joined Erestor at the remaining twin's side. The scholar had bound his wound, the cloth ripped from the scholar's cloak stained red. Elladan's breathing was harsh and his face pale, sweat beading on his brow. His silver, feverish eyes— the blade must have been poisoned— met Glorfindel's blue ones, wide with fear and desperation."G-Glorfindel." Elladan panted. "They t-took h-him. E-El—"The Balrog Slayer knelt down next to the younger elf, squeezing his shoulder gently. "I'll find him." he promised. He stood, looking sharply at Erestor. "Get him to Lord Elrond."The other elf hesitated. "You're going after them alone?"Glorfindel nodded, swiftly sitting atop his horse. "Yes. Get him home and send a patrol after me, all right?"Erestor nodded determinedly, pulling Elladan up onto his horse. The older twin gave a pained gasp and swiftly passed out. It was one of the few times Glorfindel had ever heard the stoic scholar curse.Erestor mounted gracefully, locking eyes with the Balrog Slayer. "Good hunting."Not watching them vanish down the path, the Balrog Slayer rode away, pursuing the remainder of the small army that had captured his friend's son.LOTRLOTRLOTRDark clouds covered the sky, promising a violent storm later in the day. It was so dark it was practically night, but Legolas was not bothered by the gloom that hung over the normally bright forest of Imladris. He was used to traveling in shadowed places. His most common haunt was Mirkwood after all. He preferred the shadowy woods of Mirkwood rather than the busy villages or Man or the bright realms of the other elves, but still traveled much at random times or when the need to get away struck him.He remained a silent protector of those whose paths crossed his, hunting orcs, stopping raids, and even carrying injured people to the nearest civilization. He would accept thanks and shelter with humans but never revealed himself to elves or Wizards. Radagast was an exception, and had remained a mix of close friend and eccentric uncle to the young elf. Fifty-three years after his first encounter with the Brown Wizard, his words of caution remained in Legolas's mind. The same doubtful, worrying thoughts repeated themselves in the assassin's head.What if the elves did not accept him? What if they thought he was unnatural? What if his family were exiled from the elven realms? What if they had left his mother and him to die at the orcs hands? Closing his eyes, Legolas struggled for the thousandth time in his mind, trying to retrieve a memory, any memory, of his family and his life before Dol Guldur. All he received was the terrible image of his mother, surrounded by orcs, Grihtz's sword raised to slay her where she knelt.The assassin flinched and shook his head, clearing his mind of the terrible, half-forgotten memory. A distant pounding caught his attention and he went still. He recognized the sound of marching feet well enough. Without a second thought the elf leapt straight upward, landing neatly on the tree limb high above the ground. A moment later the trees sensed the incoming creatures and hissed warnings.Orcs.I know, Legolas responded, bow in his hand with an arrow notched in the string.The orcs emerged from the shadows, running quickly but uniformly beneath Legolas's branch. The assassin counted fifteen orcs in the band. He studied the group of orcs carefully, noting the way they looked over their shoulder and crowded around an orc in the center. He appeared to be carrying something.A glint in the gloom caught his attention, his sharp eyes zeroing in on the flicker of light. Two of the orcs were carrying what appeared to be a sword. The sword was too well-crafted to be of orc-make, and too fine to have been created in the forges of Man. Why would orcs be carrying an elvish blade? Unless...The hiding assassin gripped the tree limb tightly, crouching lower on the branch. He let the arrow droop out from the string, now harmless. There were too many orcs to shoot without them fleeing or retaliating. Also, Legolas did not know why they had captured an elf. If they were bringing him somewhere on their master's orders, the orcs would not kill their captive. But if the elf did not need to live or he was only a hostage, they would slay him the moment enemy forces arrived.Moving through the treetops, Legolas followed the orcs as they ran on the ground, glancing nervously behind them. The assassin got a glimpse of their captive, anger flaring in his chest as he saw the unconscious elf's wounds. Legolas could see a gash on the elf's leg, and blood was drying on his cheek from a cut on his temple. The dark hair and blue armor suggested he was a warrior of Rivendell.Based on the orcs' speed and hasty running, the elf was with other elves when he was captured, most likely on patrol with his fellow warriors. Legolas idly wondered if the Rivendell elves had been tracking the orcs or had been ambushed. He pushed these thoughts from his mind, focusing on keeping his prey in sight. Despite the many differences between his own capture and this, Legolas was terribly reminded of his own kidnapping. He knew that whatever awaited the elf at the end of his journey would not be pleasant. It did not matter who the elf was or how he had ended up in his current predicament. All that mattered was getting him away from the orcs. Legolas had to rescue him.The assassin leapt silently from branch to branch before pausing, the trees' whispering softly around him. Their vague calls and emotions prodded at the Wood elf like a child poking his arm to get his attention. He felt their mix of excitement, encouragement, and worry as they murmured and breathed, unwilling to move and reveal the position of the one that had caught their attention. The thoughts and emotions the trees expressed were one Legolas had quickly learned to associate with elves. There was another elf nearby.Legolas jumped further upward, peering down through the branches as a figure on horseback moved quickly— but not too quickly— after the orcs, staying out of their sight. The elf paused, peering down at the other in silence. He was another warrior in blue armor, his golden hair unnervingly bright amidst in the trees. The elf was good at hiding from those he pursued however, keeping back as he stalked the horde. His horse was as silent and intent as his master, ears twitching and steps silent as they followed the orcs.The Rivendell elf's ally is also tracking the orcs, the assassin thought. He must be hanging back until reinforcements arrive, or is waiting until he can get his friend out without alerting the orcs. I need not get involved in this and expose myself... but I'm going to anyway. If they need my help, I will assist. I will not stand by and watch them be slaughtered.With this in mind, Legolas traveled quickly through the trees, following the orcs and the elf tracking them, an unseen guardian in the treetops.LOTRLOTRLOTRThe orcs stopped for the night, camped at the edge of the woods, just outside the Misty Mountains. The cloudiness of the day had let them travel throughout it, only stopping halfway into the next night. Much distance had been put between them and Rivendell, and Glorfindel hoped that the patrol of elves Erestor had sent would be able to find their trail. He knew that help would be a long time in coming, though. A steady rain had washed away much of the trail. The orcs had not set up camp at all in the many hours they had traveled. They had ony rested long enough for Glorfindel— carefully hidden in the trees— to eat some lembas and let his horse take a break.His horse was waiting patiently further back, but close enough if he had to grab Elrohir and run. At this point, this might be his only option. Help was a long way behind them and with this cloudy weather the orcs would be able to travel far. If there was a chance for Glorfindel to rescue the twin tonight, he had to take it. He would not leave Elroir in the orcs' hands for long. He could not let what had happened to Celebrian happen to her son. If Elrohir was tortured and broken like she was... The Vanyar forced himself not to finish that line of thought.The orcs were in small groups, without tents or fire. They merely stayed beneath the lonely moon, brooding about the slight chill but not complaining. Whining about being hungry or cold would be punished violently. Glorfindel held his breath as an orc— most likely the leader of the band— approached Elrohir. He peered down at the still-unconscious elf with cruel yellow eyes, teeth bared in a yellowed snarl."We sure this is one of Elrond's sons?" the orc growled, glaring at the orc that had been carrying the elf.The orc nodded firmly, grinning and revealing dirty fangs. "Yeah. 'e was one o' those twins."The leader smirked, kicking the elf in the hope of getting a reaction out of him. Elrohir did not even twitch, so deeply unconscious he was.The orc snorted. "The master wants 'im for leverage. We can't kill 'im."He sounded so disappointed that a chill went up Glorfindel's spine. He always forgot how vile, cruel, and savage orcs were until he encountered them again. Another orc stepped up beside the first, a hateful expression on his face."The master said 'e wants 'im alive." the orc emphasized. "Alive, 'e said. 'e didn't say uninjured."The leader's face brightened like a predator that had spotted wounded prey. Cheers went up through the surrounding orcs' as they realized what their fellow soldier was saying."Cut off his ears!""Whip him 'til 'e screams!""Burn him!"Shouts begging for violence and torture sounded through the air. Glorfindel could feel himself trembling, from both rage and fear. Rage that the orcs could so casually wish for harm upon another and fear for Elrohir."Let's carve up 'is pretty face, shall we?" the orc leader bellowed, and received yells of bloodlust-filled joy from his kin.The orc knelt next to the limp elf, unsheathing a knife from its sheath. Glorfindel's heart pounded as he watched. There was no time to plan. He could not stand here and watch Elrohir be tortured and mutilated. He had to act now! The knife was making a slow descent, not stabbing, merely lowering, as the orc leader prepared to cut the helpless elf.Before the knife could touch the unconscious twin's skin, an arrow appeared in the orc leader's throat. He tipped, falling to the ground, and fourteen orcs and one elf stared at him in mute astonishment. Glorfindel blinked and someone was there, twin daggers plunging into the orcs nearest Elrohir.In the trees, the Balrog Slayer tensed, reaching for his sword as he prepared to enter what had to be a useless fight. There were at least fifty orcs left! What was the figure thinking?! To his surprise, one of the orcs screamed. It was a sound of pure terror, terror that was only emphasized by the fear on the orc's face. The orc was afraid?!"Hoshvuras!" the orc shrieked.Glorfindel did not know what the orc had said, but the cloaked figure did. News of the guardian of the forest, slayer of orcs, had not reached the lves, but it had reached the ears of the ones he hunted. The "Hoshvuras", Silent Slayer in Westron, was almost like a ghost tale in the servants' of Sauron's ranks. A mysterious creature of the forest, able to turn invisible and melt into the shadows it fought, Hoshvuras was a Spirit of Death and Vengeance, his only purpose to slay the servants of the Shadow. None had ever escaped Hoshvuras, but all orcs knew him when they were unlucky enough to see him. After all, what creature other than Hoshvuras could have such unnaturally glowing violet eyes.The figure's movements were graceful , almost like a dancer's. The orcs fell around him like grass to a scythe, frozen as if unable to flee or fight. Glorfindel could not see when the mysterious stranger struck them or where, but as he ghosted through them the orcs all died. Any orcs who tried to run and were not trampled were shot down by arrows. Those that tried to rush and fight the figure were cut down with ease.The figure moved like water, never stopping, never blocking, only killing, killing, killing, each strike deadly. Glorfindel watched with shock, awe, and a little fear as the figure carved through the horde of orcs as easily as a fish swam through water. Another unnerving element was how silent he was. He did not grunt or shout like his enemies, only fighting with an eerie silence. Not even a clang of metal on metal was heard. If Glorfindel did not know any better, he could have sworn it was a ghost. He almost thought it was a ghost that had appeared when he caught a glimpse of glowing violet eyes.The figure stood in the center of the bloody battlefield, unmoving except for his bright violet eyes, which scanned the area for more enemies. Finding none, he knelt beside Elrohir, reaching for him. Glorfindel stiffened but quickly relaxed as the figure merely checked the dark haired elf for a pulse. The half-elf's rescuer tensed and looked up, violet eyes meeting the Balrog Slayer's blue ones.The cloaked figure shifted slightly, poised to flee, but his hand hovered near Elrohir almost protectively. Before the rescuer could choose between flight and staying with the elf he had saved, Glorfindel emerged from the trees. His hands were held up in a peaceful gesture, away from his sword, and he kept his posture relaxed and nonthreatening."Its alright. I'm a friend." the Vanyar said.The cloaked elf— for only an elf could fight in such a smooth, beautiful, and deadly way— did not put down his guard, but he did not flee either. Seeing this as permission to approach, Glorfindel knelt next to the elf and Elrohir, quickly checking his wounds. The Balrog Slayer looked at his silent companion, unable to see any features except his luminous violet eyes. He could not see a glow on the other's skin, but deep down, the Vanyar knew the other was an elf."I have bandages and some herbs in my pack," he said to the violet-eyed elf. "Can you stay with him while I get them?"The cloaked elf nodded, still not speaking. Glorfindel smiled in what he hoped was an encouraging way and hurried to where his horse was tethered. He quickly grabbed the pack, leading his horse along with him as his mind reeled.Who is that elf? Why does he have violet eyes? How can he fight like that? How did he kill all those orcs? Thranduil has been saying that his patrols keep finding piles of burning orc and Spider bodies in Mirkwood. Could he be the one slaying them? Why is he doing that? Where's he from? Why has he never revealed himself? Who is he?Back at the camp, Legolas sat with the unconscious son of Elrond, panic freezing his limbs and keeping him from moving. The self-preserving and panicked part of him screamed that they needed to run before the golden-haired elf— Lord Glorfindel of all people!— returned, but the calm, helpful part insisted that he could not leave the wounded twin alone. Not that he could move anyway. He was paralyzed by fear. Legolas's heart was pounding loudly in his chest, so loud he was sure the whole forest could hear its frantic beat.Frankly, he did not know why he was not running yet. Perhaps his sense of duty and determination to stay with the twin until he knew the Elrondion was in safe hands was greater than his panic at being discovered by an elf. Not just any elf, but an ancient Elf Lord. If Legolas had any less control, he would be hyperventilating. Saving the elf from being mutilated had been instinct. Legolas had not stopped to think about the other elf that had been pursuing the orcs. He would not respect himself if he had cared about remaining hidden more than saving a life. He had enough of a calm mind to gently clean and put pressure on the twin's reopened wounds but now that the battle was done and the elf out of immediate danger...He saw me. He saw me. He saw me. The thought repeated itself in his head. Oh Valar what do I do? Should I run? He instantly rejected the thought. He was not going to run like a scared child. I'll be fine. What's the worst he could do?......He could reject me. Please let me be paranoid. Please don't let the first of my kind that I meet think I'm strange.It was then that Glorfindel returned, instantly setting to work wrapping the twin's wounds. Legolas opened his mouth, unwilling to distract the elf. He closed it, opened it once more, and forced himself to speak."What's his name?"The Balrog Slayer glanced at him before returning his gaze to the twin. "He is Elrohir, younger twin son of Elrond. You did not know?""No." Legolas said, uncomfortable."I am Glorfindel of Imladris." the golden-haired elf introduced."My name is Esgal." Legolas said instinctively.He did not say where he was from. He was from nowhere and everywhere. Glorfindel did not comment on his lack of mentioning where he was from, checking Elrohir's pulse one more time before rising to his feet."We can move him safely. We have to get him back to Imladris."He whistled sharply and a horse trotted out from the trees, waiting patiently beside his rider. Glorfindel lifted Elrohir onto the stallion's back. He glanced back at "Esgal" frowning slightly."You have no inner light," Glorfindel stated, brow furrowed."Yes I do," Legolas said in a rush. "I'm suppressing it."He still had the startled-deer look on his face, wariness and tension in his every muscle and movement. Still, he remained at Elrohir's side, lingering protectiveness overriding his discomfort with being close to the Vanyar. Glorfindel realized the elf was quite young. He also realized that the ellon's nervousness was not to do with him personally. It was almost like the cloaked elf was wary of his own kind.How can that be? Was he born with those eyes and abandoned because of them? The Balrog Slayer thought.His soul rebelled against the thought that an elf would abandon their child because of something so trivial, but he knew that such actions were common for the race of Men. So he merely nodded, mounting up on his horse behind the limp Elrohir."Thank you, mellon-nin, for your help. I would like to linger and hear your tale but I need to get Elrohir to his father. Perhaps at a different time we may introduce ourselves properly."He gave Legolas a sincere, grateful smile. That look, absent of wariness or fear, was instead openly grateful and calm. That open expression was one of acceptance, and it was all Legolas needed to relax."You... don't think I'm unnatural?" he asked hesitantly, before he could stop himself.Glorfindel looked surprised. "Of course not."Violet eyes and no glow were startling and unique, but not unnatural. He did not voice his thoughts, seeing the elf's insecurities about his unique features. Legolas's eyes rested on Elrohir, a question on his lips. He stifled it, a determined expression replacing his previously young-looking and slightly lost one."We need to get moving. I will follow in the trees." he said.Glorfindel nodded and spurred his horse, racing along the barely visible path. Above him, Legolas leapt from branch to branch, unworried as he fell slightly behind the horse's fast gait. He could catch up whenever the horse was forced to veer or slow because of close-growing trees or uneven ground. He knew where Rivendell was. Now, his main goal was to provide assistance if Glorfindel needed it.They rode and ran in silence, great stamina being shown by the horse and assassin. The way back was faster than the way there, with the horse's energy renewed by the urgency of his rider. Legolas was the first to sense the others heading towards them. He pushed himself faster, Glorfindel pausing as the assassin appeared behind him."Your friends are here." he told the Balrog Slayer.He leapt back up into the trees. The Vanyar blinked in confusion at the action before his eyes widened with realization. Esgal did not want the other elves to know he was there. Although the Balrog Slayer did not know the mysterious fighter, he instinctively knew he was a good elf, and deserved his discretion. It was because of this that Glorfindel did not look at or mention the shadow in the treetops as a patrol of ten Rivendell warriors burst out of the foliage."Lord Glorfindel!" one warrior said. "You rescued him!""Yes." the Vanyar said shortly. "The orcs are dead."He handed Elrohir off to another elf, who sped off with his fresher, less tired horse. The other elves followed suite, with Legolas as a silent shadow above them. Glorfindel was careful not look up. He could not tell if Esgal was still there, or if he had left. Unknown to the Vanyar the assassin was up in the trees above him, staying within hearing range of the elves. The pale blonde-haired elf was currently battling with himself, joy and hope warring with nerves and fear.He could show himself. He could drop down and catch the attention of the elves. Glorfindel would explain who he was, and how he helped Elrohir. He had the Elf Lord's acceptance. His fears seemed to be unfounded. He should reveal himself to the others. Legolas was surprised by the thought, but found himself hesitantly willing to do it.Glorfindel accepted me. Without explanation or questions he accepted me, despite what I look like and how well I kill. Perhaps others will as well?Just as Legolas was about to emerge from the shadows, a Rivendell warrior spoke in a loud, easily heard voice."Bloody orcs. I cannot believe they were once elves. That just goes to prove anything the Shadow touches is corrupted. I cannot wait until the Darkness is destroyed, along with everything it has created." There was rage and utter loathing in the warrior's voice, so deep and unshakable it made the hidden assassin shudder.Legolas closed his eyes, not moving from the tree limb he stood on. Glorfindel may not have made him spill his secrets and asked about his past, but others would. Others had not seen him defend Elrohir, or witnessed the protectiveness he had over the other elf even when he was scared out of his mind. Questions would be asked, and answers would be demanded if Legolas showed himself to the warriors below him. Glorfindel's support would not be enough to keep them from being suspicious. And suspicious people dug and dug into a person and their past, exposing them until all of their secrets were ripped from them.The elf studied the warrior that had spoken. He saw bitter hatred and great, overlaying anger in his expression. He would be one of those suspicious people. He was the type to hate all things that were even slightly touched by Shadow.Who did you lose? The assassin asked the Rivendell elf silently. Who was killed by the Shadow that you hate it so deeply? But it does not matter. I was right. Legolas thought sadly. Some of them will not accept me. I cannot show myself now. They are not ready.Turning away from the Rivendell elves, the assassin vanished into the forest. He would find Glorfindel and talk to him later. But he could not reveal himself yet.LOTRLOTRLOTRThe return to the Last Homely House transpired just as Glorfindel had predicted. Elrond rushed out in a dignified yet harried way, whisking Elrohir into the healing ward and barking orders at lesser healers as he hurried his son into the house. Glorfindel tasked himself with keeping the stubborn Elladan— his arm in a sling and his shoulder bandaged, still pale from the poison that had been purged from his veins— out of his father's way, guarding the door to the ward and stopping all of the older twin's attempts to get inside."Sit down, Elrondion." the Balrog Slayer said firmly, glaring at the younger elf. "You will remain out here until your father is finished.""He's my brother," Elladan snapped, harsh and angry out of fear for his brother. "I'm a trained healer! I can help!""You are injured yourself," Glorfindel pointed out, not budging. "You will only get in the way." The older twin opened his mouth to protest but the golden-haired elf cut him off. "You cannot go inside, Elladan. You know Elrond's rule. Unless it is an emergency, family members should not treat each other's injuries. Knowing the person causes great fear, and fear can lead to fatal mistakes."Elladan glared at him a moment longer before dropping his gaze. "I know. I just hate waiting and doing nothing."Glorfindel guided the twin to a chair, allowing him to collapse into it before sitting beside the younger elf. Elladan was trembling, biting his lip as he glanced repeatedly at the door out of the corner of his eye. Glorfindel hugged the twin for the first time since he was an elfling running to him after a nightmare."He's going to be all right," the Vanyar soothed."He's been unconscious for over twelve hours," Elladan said miserably. "Something must be wrong."The doors flew open before Glorfindel had to respond. Elrond walked out, face pale and tired. He caught Glorfindels' eyes and nodded once. "He's awake." the Half-Elf said, face pale but relieved. "His leg wound has been taken care of and he has no serious head injury. He was merely in a self-induced healing trance.""He's okay?" Elladan asked for confirmation.Elrond laughed, a delightful sound. "Yes. Come in."The twin ran into the room, his father and Glorfindel following at a slower pace. Elrohir was in a bed at the far side of the ward, leg wrapped in bandages along wit ha wrap around his head. Elladan rushed forward, squeezing his brother tightly."Ouch!" Elrohir winced. "Too tight!"Elladan gave a shaky laugh but did not let go. "Don't ever do that again!""Do what?" the younger twin joked. "Get captured by orcs? Or accidentally fall into a healing trance because of a head wound?""Both. Never again." his voice shook with barely contained emotion.Elrohir grimaced, not from pain this time. "Sorry."Elrond sat beside his sons, bringing them both into his arms. "I am going to lock you in your rooms and never let you out." The Elf Lord claimed.The twins exchanged a glance before simultaneously groaning in an exaggerated manner."But Ada," Elladan cried dramatically. "If you lock us up, we won't be able to visit Daernaneth and she'll be angry.""I fear losing you more than I fear your Grandmother," Elrond said, only half-joking. He pulled back from the hug, looking at both his sons with tired eyes. "How do you keep finding such trouble?"Seeing the very real worry in their father's voice and face, the twins sobered."You are not going to lose us, Ada." Elrohir said, giving his father another hug.They stayed together for a moment before Elrond looked at the golden-haired elf who had saved his son. "What happened, Glorfindel? How did you get him away from the orcs? Erestor told me there were almost fifty left."Elrohir was the only one to notice the slight hesitation before the Balrog Slayer replied."The orcs fought each other. Half of them wanted to torture and kill Elrohir—" the entire room winced. "—while the other half knew their master required him to be alive for ransom. By the time the two sides were finished, their numbers had been reduced to ten. They were easy enough to take care of." The Balrog Slayer's voice was dark, eyes glinting.Elladan and Elrond accepted his explanation, talking with and worrying over Elrohir, but the injured twin was thoughtful behind his smiles and reassurances. For some reason, Glorfindel was hiding something from them, even from Elrond. Elrohir knew that the Balrog Slayer had no intention of informing the Lord of Rivendell of whatever he was being tight-lipped about. The younger twin could tell, because whenever the golden-haired elf wanted to say something without the twins there, he would meet Elrond's eyes for a split second before looking away. This time, Glorfindel had not looked at the Elf Lord at all.Heaviness entering his limbs, his eyes fluttering closed, Elrohir had one final thought before he let sleep claim him. What could have possibly happened that Glorfindel won't tell Ada? What secret could be so great that he won't tell his Lord and close friend?LOTRLOTRLOTRFar away in Lothlorien, Galadriel breathed a sigh of relief. "They are all safe." she told Celeborn. "My vision came to pass, but Glorfindel appears to have been able to save young Elrohir."Her husband looked at her, his normally stoic expression replaced by one of slight confusion. ""Appears"? You do not know?"The beautiful Elf Lady, looked down at her mirror, a frown marring her features. "Shortly after Elrohir was captured, his future was hidden from me. He was not covered by shadow or light, he was merely... not there. It was like trying to see something through a wall made of stone. Not long after Elrohir's rescue, he reappeared once more. It was almost like something he interacted with was blocking my Sight.""Only Great Powers of Darkness can block you." Celeborn said in a foreboding tone.Galadriel shook her head. "No. They cannot block me. They can only hide themselves ins hadow to obscure my sight. That is why I cannot see in Minas Morgul, Mordor, or Dol Guldur. The Shadow cloaks its secrets, obscuring my sight, but it cannot block me like this. If I were not watching over Elrohir, I would not have known about this anomaly. But... there is one thing I can sense."Galadriel turned, looking at her husband with wise blue eyes. "Someone is watching over the elves. We have a great ally in the forests. When the time is right, we will not find him. He will come to us."LOTRLOTRLOTRTranslations:SindarinAda/Adar: Daddy/Dad/FatherNana/Naneth: Mommy/Mom/MotherDaernaneth: Great-mother (Grandmother)Daeradar: Great-father (Grandfather)Mellon-nin: My friendBlack SpeechHoshvuras: (Shortened version of Hoshatvuras) Silent Slayer. Original A/N: How many of you want to slap that Rivendell warrior? (All of the readers raise their hands). I did that to show that some of the elves really are close-minded fools and that Legolas's fears of rejection aren't unfounded. Some of the elves won't accept him and will fear him if he shows himself... Jerks. :(At least Glorfindel knows Esgal exists now. Their encounters are going to be a mix of friendship with a bit of a father/son relationship mixed in. And Elrohir expects the Balrog Slayer is hiding something, plus Galadriel has a vague sense of a mysterious power guarding the elves... ;)Legolas has gained quite the reputation among the orcs and other dark creatures. Like I showed in "Chapter One: In the Depths of Dol Guldur", he can momentarily freeze enemies with his unnatural eyes. That's all the time he needs to take them out.Thank you for all of the brilliant, wonderful reviews for last chapter!Responses to Guest reviews:To "Issy": Thanks! Me too. Sadly, he's not going to know for a while. :( To "Em": Thanks for reviewing!To "Lyria": Thank you! Yeah, he will. Sometime after Aragorn comes in. ;)Please review! Reviews make me very happy! :D


********** Page 9 **********

Chapter Eight: "He is Coming"Third Age 2901 (110 years ago...)One more step. One more step. One more step.Legolas could hear the blood pounding in his ears and feel his heart beating rapidly in his chest. His breathing was harsh and loud in the silence of the forest around him, and his feet stumbled every few steps. Around him the trees cried out wordlessly in worry, unable to assist as he struggled to walk beneath their boughs. Blood dripped between the assassin's pale fingers, which were clutched over the wound on his side.Legolas was in a forest in the Shire. He had tracked a pack of wayward orcs to the peaceful place and had taken them out. The battle had been easy enough, the orcs falling to his blades faster than they could retaliate. However, the assassin had failed to notice that one of the orcs was a Berserker. When he had turned to leave, the Berserker had stabbed him with a dagger before dying, using his last bit of strength to harm the one who had slain him.Now Legolas was stumbling through the forest, seriously wounded, with no help nearby. He was barely moving, forcing himself to go forward step by step. He did not know where he was headed, too tired to pay attention to where he was going. He just kept moving forward, forcing himself not to stop.One more step. One more step. One more step.He had not been stabbed in an inherently fatal place, and the wound itself was not that deep. However, it was bleeding heavily, staining the cloak he had pressed over it red. Legolas had a feeling the Berserker had a poison on the dagger that prevented blood from clotting. He just kept bleeding. And bleeding.One more step. He told himself. Just one more step. One step at a time. I cannot stop. I need to get to help...The assassin stumbled another time, black spots dancing across his vision as dizziness overcame him. He breathed rapidly, eyes half closed, and simply lay there on the ground. He was so tired. He did not have the energy to move. Weakness that he had never felt before washed over Legolas and his eyes slipped fully closed, the worried calls of the trees fading into nothingness. Heaviness pressed down on the elf, replacing the lightheaded feeling he had felt, and all awareness fled.LOTRLOTRLOTRIt was dark, and Legolas was afraid. It was a fear born of confusion, like an instinct in the back of his mind. Something was wrong. He was in a blackness he had never experienced before, the kind that seemed to press down on and suffocate him all at once. No matter what he tried he could not gain awareness of any of his senses. He had no hearing, touch, smell, or taste here. Only the endless, confusing blackness.Time did not move and nothing seemed to change, but he realized he had been in the darkness longer than he was aware, thoughts only just starting to reenter his mind. Soon after he recalled that he had been injured. He must be unconscious. No, no longer unconscious. He was beginning to wake, his thoughts returning like someone waking from a heavy sleep.Senses returned, the first being touch, and a dull, aching pain let itself be known. He winced internally, still trapped between oblivion and awareness. Legolas's arm twitched, reacting sluggishly. His limbs felt heavy and stiff, unwilling to follow his mind's commands. He had to get up. He needed to know what had happened. He had been bleeding to death, but now he was not. What had happened?Legolas's fingers brushed against his side, feeling the bump of bandages under his shirt. Someone had found him, and treated his wounds. Where they still there? The elf forced his eyes open. They had been closed? He had not even noticed. He winced as bright light blinded him, blinking fiercely. His vision quickly adjusted, revealing a light blue sky, broken by the green leaves above. He was still in the forest then. A quick scan of the area revealed no one nearby. Legolas briefly wondered if this was how some of the people he rescued felt when they woke up alone.The elf touched the carefully wrapped bandages again. Should he move and try to find the one who helped him? His ability to tell if someone was near was severely hindered at the moment, dizziness and exhaustion making him tired and slow. He sat up, grimacing, and his violet eyes swept the area once more. He spotted movement, still quite far away, but he did not tense in the slightest. He recognized the two small— one child-sized and the other even smaller than that— heading towards him. Two hobbits had found him.Legolas liked hobbits, though he had never interacted with one before. They were a cheerful, simple yet complex people, content with the lives of farming, fishing, and eating they lived. They did not seek power, or manipulate each other for personal gain. And although they were against what they called "queerness" and few wished to leave the Shire and have an adventure, they were a good, welcoming people. They loved each other, food, and growing things, though they sometimes liked to spread rumors and tall tales, not out of malice but faulty communication and a love for gossip.They were the one race in Middle-earth that truly remained untouched by the Shadow, the orcs and other servants of Sauron not bothering with the far-off Shire. Legolas hoped that the Shadow kept away from the peaceful realm for as long as possible. That was why he had hunted those orcs so fiercely. They had ended up on the wrong side of the river near Bree, and had unintentionally been headed towards the oblivious hobbits. The average hobbit truly was oblivious in many things, and Legolas wanted to keep them from knowing the pain of battle and the fear of the Shadow for a little while longer.That was why he did not tense when he saw the two hobbits heading towards him. Not only did they already help him, but they had the cheerful, innocent auras of those who did not seek something in return for their assistance. They were the best of hobbits, through and through. Legoals could tell.The sound of a female voice, raised in scolding, reached the elf's ears. "I told you to stay with him. Why must you wander off the moment my back is turned?""There was a bird, Mama." the young voice of a child— a boy— replied. "I just wanted to see her nest."His mother sighed. "You favor the Took blood within you, my son. I must be less Tookish than I once was. You've given me more grey hairs—" The hobbit and her son entered the clearing, the mother spotting Legolas. "Ah! You're awake!"The child squeaked and hid behind his mother's skirt. The mother ignored her son's shyness, rushing forward with the tiny hobbit clinging to her dress. She set down her basket, fussing about Legolas and reminding the elf of a worried hen."We found you wounded here. Its a relief you are awake. I was just off getting more herbs to help your blood clot. Nasty wound you have. Is it paining you? How are you feeling?""I'm fine madame," Legolas said . "Thank you for helping me.""It was no problem at all, dear." she said.. Oh! How rude of me. I haven't even told you our names. I am Belladonna Took. And this little one is Bilbo Baggins, my son."The tiny Halfling clung to his mother's skirt, peering around her leg at Legolas before hiding once more. Legolas smiled kindly at the boy. The tiny hobbit put his thumb in his mouth, sucking it anxiously."Hello, little one." the elf greeted. "My name is Esgal."Bilbo took the thumb out of his mouth. "Hello. Its nice to meet you." the appendage returned to its previous position."Stop that," Belladonna chided, taking out the thumb and frowning. "You'll make your teeth grow in crooked. You'll never get a fine lady if you have an odd smile.""I don't want a lady," Bilbo proclaimed. "Girls are weird. And loud. And throw temper tantrums. And wear frilly things. And—""Need I remind you that I am a girl?" Belladonna asked, expression stern but with a hint of amusement.Bilbo did not notice the teasing in her expression or voice. He shook his head rapidly, hands clapped over his mouth and eyes wide. "Not you, Mama! You're nice and make wonderful berry pies and aren't loud or strange at all!" The hobbit looked at Legolas, a contemplative look on his face. "Gandalf says that Elves glow in the dark," Bilbo said curiously, changing the discussion so quickly the elf was taken aback. "But you don't.""I am suppressing my glow," Legolas explained.He mentally berated himself for not realizing his hood was down, his face, ears and hair revealed. He had gotten used to not wearing the hood and cloth over his face when he was with Glorfindel, enough that he had not noticed that his features were exposed. At least the hobbit-child was commenting on his lack of a glow, not his glowing violet eyes."Why?""In my... line of work, I sometimes need to hide, and that is hard to do when I glow in the dark.""What do you do?""I kill monsters."Bilbo's eyes grew huge. "Really?""Yes, really." Legolas said, lips twitching.Before he knew it, the tiny boy was sitting on his right leg looking up at him with wide, excited eyes. "Can you tell me a story about one of your battles?"The assassin hesitated a moment, looking at Belladonna for permission. She only nodded, and Legolas was touched that she trusted him enough to not scare her child with his tales of battle. The elf told Bilbo a child-friendly version of one of his many battles with orcs. He kept out the blood and gore, along with the true terrifying presence orcs could have, but was also careful not to glorify or make light of the battle. War and adventures were not all fun and games, and Legolas believed that children should be at least partially aware of that. When they were older and had adventures of their own, they would not be caught off guard.While he was speaking, Belladonna undid his bandages, putting a herb-paste over the thin wound before re-wrapping it. Legolas barely noticed her, so deeply he was focused on telling the attentive Bilbo the tale. By the time the story was finished the excitement in Bilbo's gaze had been replaced by awe and a slight glimmer of understanding."You've fought a lot of monsters haven't you?" he said perceptively. "You're very brave."Legolas blinked, stunned by the praise. "I do not think so. This is just what I do."Bilbo's expression said he did not believe him. Then his attention shifted, as the minds of children often do. "Do your elf friends think you not having a glow is odd?""Bilbo!" Belladonna said sharply.The child looked confused by her tone. "I'm just asking. Cause whenever someone doesn't act like a respectable hobbit here, other people don't really like them sometimes. I was wondering if the elves don't like differences too."During Bilbo's short speech, Legolas was debating whether to tell the truth or not. He looked again at Belladonna, who stared back with open concern in her eyes. Hobbits really were amazing creatures. They were so simple and complex all at once, content with their lives like few others could be. And here was two particular hobbits who he had just met, rescuing him and welcoming him, accepting him like an old friend."I do not interact with many elves. They are not even aware that I exist," the assassin said at last. "One, Lord Glorfindel, accepts me for who and what I am, but I know many others will not."Belladonna's eyes lit up with a deep understanding, and she put a hand on his arm. "I will not tell anyone I met you," the hobbit promised softly. "I can tell you truly do not wish to be known by your Elven kin.""You are right," Legolas admitted. "I am less against meeting certain elves, but I am still not quite comfortable with the idea."His friendship with Glorfindel had helped Legolas better understand elves and their heritage. Their friendship had been a slow-building one, the assassin staying up in the treetops and talking to Glorfindel for their first few meetings. The Balrog Slayer had given him his space, sitting beneath the tree and talking up to him, without requesting personal information or demanding answers out of him. It had been nice, just to talk about the stars, forests, family and friends. Then, one day, Legolas had found himself sitting beside the Vanyar. He was not sure how it had happened, but a few meetings of talking and experiencing Glorfindel's open, cheerful nature had let the assassin unknowingly trust him. It had taken a while, but the trust had been formed. However, Legolas was not ready to reveal himself yet. Some deep instinct kept him from accepting Glorfindel's invitation to officially visit Rivendell. Or should he say, someone did.He had spotted the elf who hated all things touched by the Shadow a few times while sneaking about the Hidden Valley, and had heard a couple stories from Glorfindel. Apparently the elf, Amulug, had lost his wife, brother, sister, and parents many hundreds of years ago. They had been killed by the Witch-King, in an unexpected attack between Lothlorien and Rivendell. That was back when the Shadow was just starting to return, only a tiny whisper in the back of the minds of elves in the two Ring-protected realms. The family had been in the misty Mountains when they were ambushed by orcs. Amulug had only survived because he fell off a small cliff, blacking out when he hit the bottom. When he awoke, the elves had found him, and his family was gone.Rather than fade, Amulug became vengeful, seeking out and destroying any orcs or remnants of the Shadow he came across. This occasionally put patrols he was in in unnecessary danger. Yet the elves could not deny him his vengeance. The twin sons of Elrond had had a similar mission long ago. The only difference was that Amulug did not hunt orcs, and happened to become bloodthirsty and wild whenever he saw the creatures. He attacked any who were touched by or followed the Shadow with a extreme prejudice, not waiting for explanations or heeding orders to stand down.Despite this, a few Rivendell warriors and even a couple from Lothlorien were willing to follow the elf without question. While he was twisted and possibly not right in the head, Amulug was also charismatic. Hearing about him, Legolas was reminded of Drust and his goons in Blue Harbor. If the warriors were human, they would have been cast out of the city, but they were elves, and they lived in Rivendell. Even with the leniency of Lord Elrond, the relationship between the general populace and those warriors were strained. For that reason and the still-lingering nerves about rejection, Legolas would avoid the elves for now."Don't worry about Bilbo. If he tells anyone they will just think it's a child's imagination." Belladonna added, pulling him out of his thoughts.Bilbo pouted, crossing his arms over his chest. "I won't tell anyone!" he said earnestly. "I promise."Looking at his small, genuine face, Legolas could not help but believe him.LOTRLOTRLOTRGandalf the Grey was in no hurry to get to Mirkwood. There was no urgent message to deliver, no battles to fight, and no impending doom to warn about. He was merely going to the darkened forest to visit old friends, and see how the Royal Family was faring. Thranduil's hatred of and drive to destroy the Shadow had not wavered and he and his kin were still intolerant of most non-elven strangers, but the King was becoming less quick to anger and letting his kingly mask drop at times. He still never laughed, sometimes woke with nightmares, and was rather more brusque than he had once been, but not as badly as he had suffered for the past three hundred seventy years.The Wizard did not know whether that meant the Sindar was healing. He hoped that was the case. Gandalf was only aware of the changes in Thranduil because Tollui, one of Thranduil's friends and advisers, had been keeping him and Elrond updated on any changes. The adviser never revealed any confidential or personal information, only basic, truthful facts about his leader's health. So he decided to go to Mirkwood, to see his old friend. Because that was what friends did, after all. They worried and checked up on each other.The entrance to the palace was just ahead. Gandalf was surprised that he had not had any encounters with Spiders or orcs on his journey. He had presumed he would be attacked at least once on his journey. Perhaps the elves were winning against the Darkness more than they thought. Fael and another elf— Heled, the Wizard believed his name was— met him just inside the gate."Well met, Mithrandir." Fael greeted, bowing slightly. "A patrol told us you were coming.""Did they now? I didn't even notice them. Every time I travel to Mirkwood, the Wood-Elves are even better at hiding in the trees than the last time." Gandalf said.Although his lips twitched, the Prince spoke formally. "The King is currently in a meeting with his advisers and will greet you later.""That is suitable," Gandalf replied. "I am in no hurry."Now that formalities were over with, Fael's face morphed from serious into an easy smile. "It is truly good to see you, Mithrandir. You just missed lunch but you must be hungry after your journey. I'm sure Cook will make something for you.""That would be greatly appreciated." the Wizard said.He dismounted from his horse, staff in one hand and the reins in the other. Heled took the reins from the Istar, guiding the grey horse to the stalls. Fael walked at Gandalf's side, the Wizard's staff tapping on the floor with ever other step."How are you, Fael?" Gandalf questioned the Prince. "Have you pulled any pranks on your siblings lately?"Fael smiled the tiniest bit, though a sadness had entered his gaze. "No. I have not. I think I would like to, honestly, but my siblings are less easygoing than they once were. If I pranked Aglar or Megilag I would be punished severely. Bereneth would snap at me and storm off. Barhad would probably laugh. It's just..." he sighed, looking up at the stone ceiling above them. "Pranking just doesn't interest me anymore."Gandalf placed a hand on the young-yet-old ellon beside him, squeezing his shoulder gently. "I hope you can find happiness again someday, Fael. You and your family.""We'll see," Fael murmured, and his eyes were distant. "I met Radagast a few hundred years ago. During the major flood I fell into the river."The Wizard waited patiently for him to continue, wondering why the Prince had brought up his fellow Istar."I was drowning. Dying." the silver-haired elf said darkly. "I blacked out before Radagast pulled me out. But... before I lost consciousness... I thought I saw Legolas. He was coming towards me, reaching for my hands as if to pull me to safety... but it turns out I was just imagining things.""Perhaps not." Gandalf said. "When one is near death, they sometimes see the spirits of loved ones who passed on. Then again, you mind may have been seeing what it wished, when in reality Radagast was the one reaching for you." the Wizard frowned. "Though I cannot imagine the Brown Wizard jumping into a flooded river to save people. Animals, yes, but not elves.""Radagast has changed since he rescued me," Fael told him. "He's much more helpful in our fight against the Shadow. He tells us where patrols are, has given a few outlying villages small protection spells, and has even trained a couple animals to send warnings if orcs are coming. And guide elves through the forest if they are lost "The Grey Wizard's eyebrows crept up his forehead. "Oh really? I am happy to hear that my fellow Wizard is taking a more active stance in the fight against the Darkness. I was beginning to worry he would abandon our mission."Fael nodded absently in agreement, mind far away. "I remember seeing Radagast once when I was younger. He seems more... determined nowadays. It's like he found the motivation to fight. He still does the little things for the forest and animals, of course. I also think he's trying to learn more powerful magic.""I will go visit him once I am done here then." Gandalf said. "If he is trying to learn new spells, I will assist him."The Grey Wizard was very pleased that Radagast was finally following their mission. The Brown Wizard was his close friend, but he was sometimes skittish at best, terrified at worst when he encountered the Shadow. Now it seemed that Radagast's fear was gone, replaced by a drive to openly fight the servants of Sauron. Gandalf wondered what had changed his fellow Wizard.The Elf Prince and Grey Wizard entered the kitchen, where Fael spoke quickly to the cook. The elleth nodded once before barking orders at her underlings, who scurried about putting together a suitable meal for the Istar. Fael and Gandalf went into the small dining room to the side of the kitchen, meant for general meals. They sat down at the table."How was your journey?" the green-eyed elf asked. "Did you run into any trouble?""Surprisingly, no." Gandalf said. ""My trip through Mirkwood was wonderfully uneventful.""There are less orc and Spider attacks than many presume." Fael replied as if he had read the Wizard's secret thoughts. "Someone is still killing off many servants of the Shadow, and we have no idea who or what he is. We would not even know someone was out there if not for the dead enemy patrols we find.""It seems someone is watching over this forest," Gandalf mused. "It is odd that he does not reveal himself to you." he thought about what the Prince had said. "You said that you find "patrols". What size patrols do you speak of?""Twenty, thirty orcs is the average." Fael said with a shrug.Gandalf looked at him in shock. "You said "he" killed orcs, not "they". A single person has slain multiple, good-sized patrols of orcs by himself?!""Yes." the Prince said. "We were shocked too, the first time we studied the corpses. The footprints, scuff marks, and wounds suggest a single person killed all of the orcs in the patrols. Whoever he is, he is a powerful warrior.""Indeed." the Wizard mused, lighting his pipe.Fael wrinkled his nose. "Must you smoke that in here?"Gandalf sighed and put out the pipe, looking down at it almost mournfully. "Forgive my thoughtlessness. I forget how greatly elves dislike smoking.""It smells terrible. And it burns my eyes." Fael said bluntly, though he had a small grin on his face.The cook entered the room, frowning as the tiny hint of smoke-smell reached her nose. She glanced at Gandalf disapprovingly, tutted once, and set a tray with tea and stew in front of Gandalf. There was enough for Fael and Gandalf both. Plus three hobbits, four dwarves, and half of the Royal household. Cook always did try to fatten up people who looked too thin. And both the Wizard was on that list."Thank you." Fael said gratefully.The cook bowed and left them, eager to get away from the smell her sensitive nose could still pick up. Fael poured a cup of tea and turned back to Gandalf."I cannot understand how you can smoke such disgusting gunk, Mithrandir." the Prince said gravely, a hint of his old mischief appearing in his sparkling green eyes."Hmph." Gandalf huffed. "Elves can know and understand many things. The fineness of Longbottom Leaf is not one of them."Fael laughed, a musical sound, reaching forward as if to give the cup to the Wizard...LOTRLOTRLOTRFar away in Minas Morgul, the Witch-King prowled through the dark halls of his tower. He felt more at home in the dark place than he had ever felt, the Darkness in each stone growing stronger than It had ever been. For a while, almost two hundred years ago, he had been worried that the Darkness was fading. Each time he had left Minas Morgul, he had returned to find the Darkness that cloaked the tower in various states of unrest and shock. The Nazgûl Lord had feared something was wrong with his tower's power, that some form of Light was sabotaging it. His fears had been unfounded.One hundred ninety years ago, he had returned to Minas Morgul to find the Darkness stronger than ever. Rather than rippling and whispering through the halls, it pulsed and raged, bringing a heavy darkness over the tower that would cause the weaker Free People of Middle-earth to collapse with plagues of Shadow and nightmares, and the stronger to quail and tremble. The very stones of the tower exuded Darkness like an impenetrable fog. Only lamps made from the Witch-King's Dark Magic could penetrate the gloom and darkness, but even then, the halls were almost as dark as a starless, moonless night.Not only was the tower darker and more powerful, but its inhabitants were as well. Orcs and goblins born and residing in Minas Morgul were fiercer, stronger, and even more savage. Their eyes glittered with fragments of the darkness, their fangs longer and their claws sharper than any orcs the Nazgûl Lord had ever seen. Every orc that passed through the tower was affected, coming out more evil than they were when they went in, if that was possible.The Witch-King had been too busy carrying out his master's orders to investigate the change in the Darkness, and explore it himself. But there were no orcs to observe, villages to raze, or people to hunt today. Which meant he could finally sate his curiosity, and try to understand the Darkness. He sat in his room at the top of the tower, Dark Spells and words of Evil dripping from his tongue. He did not have a body, but his consciousness shifted out of his cloaked form, touching the Darkness carefully. He had to tread with caution, for even though he worshiped and was a creature of the Shadow, the Darkness may still attack and try to destroy him. Prepared to back out quickly if need be, the Witch-King entered the Darkness around him. Chaos, rage, bitterness, lust, strife, cruelty, and savage glee rushed through him, the emotions and essence of the Darkness touching whatever remained of his mutilated soul.The Darkness was almost content, happy and eager, its energy roaring and pulsing in waves of evil so great the Witch-King almost lost the connection from shock. How could the Darkness be so powerful? It was wonderful and exhilarating, yes, but It should not have this much. Curious, the Witch-King tried to trace the waves of Darkness, searching for Its source. It had to have a source, because the Darkness could not be this great. It had never been this potent, not even when Minas Morgul had been at its greatest.There! There was something there, hidden within the Darkness of Minas Morgul. The tower's Darkness cloaked and caressed the other like a shield of energy, loving what It hid yet hating It at the same time. The Witch-King approached the epicenter of the storm of evil with great care. He could sense the Darkness's protectiveness of what It hid. To his surprise, the Darkness did not try to hide what powered It. Instead, It moved aside, letting him have a clear sense of it."It" was another Darkness, trapped within an odd shield. The Nazgûl Lord could sense the power and ancient energy that created the shield, keeping the other Darkness imprisoned. The shield was so strong and impenetrable that the Witch-King was confused. How could Minas Morgul's Darkness reach this other power? He skimmed along the edge of the shield, careful not to touch it. It was too ancient and great, and he knew if he touched it he would burn to ash, Ringwraith or not.It was then he "saw" it. A tiny hairline crack was in the shield, the other Darkness leaking from it like water dripped from a cracked dam. The Witch-King could sense the pressure behind that spot, he other Darkness pushing against the shield with all Its might. Yet It was still trapped, and that angered It. The Nazgûl Lord could sense Its wrath. It wanted freedom. It wanted out.Its need was so great that the Witch-King touched the crack, without a second thought. The other Darkness focused on him, all of Its massive attention pressing down on the Ringwraith. It reeled and roared, surging under his hand. Then, using the Witch-King's presence as a focus point, It slammed into the crack. The crack did not widen, but the witch-King felt some more of the other Darkness come through. It plowed into him like a battering ram, and would have sent his consciousness flying if It had not kept him in place. The Darkness of the Shadow covered his vision, and a deep, cruel voice spoke in his mind.You are mine.The Witch-King smiled, recognizing the Darkness he had found, and laughed even as his will was overcome.LOTRLOTRLOTR...The teacup slipped from Fael's limp fingers, shattering on the stone floor. Gandalf flinched at the noise, clutching his staff with one hand and his heart with the other."I have never known an elf to be clumsy, Prince Fael," he chided, looking down at the shards of glass on the floor."He is coming." Fael said.Gandalf paused mid-step, whirling around to raise his eyebrows at the Prince. "What was that?"Fael's expression cleared and he frowned at the Wizard. "What was what?""You just said "He is coming"." Gandalf said sternly. "Who— or what— were you speaking of?"Fael looked at him like he was mad. "I do not recall saying anything. Are you sure you haven't been smoking too much pipeweed Mithrandir?"The Wizard did not return his smile."Hmm." Gandalf only hummed vaguely in response.He let it go, and the rest of his visit went without incident. But Gandalf never forgot the words, or the the haunting, ominous tone in which they had been spoken. Something very wrong and terrible had awoken in the world, and as the years passed and the Wizard had time to mull over the unexpected phrase and identify it for the warning that it was.He is coming.LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: Guesswhatguesswhatguesswhat?! This story got to 100 reviews last chapter! YAAAAAAYYYYYYYY! I'm so happy! I LOVE YOU ALLLLLLLLLLL! :D :D :DYoung Bilbo was sort of based on my young cousin. Sometimes she can do the same thing for hours, other times she is easily distracted by whatever catches her attention. I'll be playing a game with her or something and she'll ask a random question about something she just noticed. It keeps me on my toes. I kinda feel dumb when she asks something and I go "Huh?" cause we were talking about or doing something completely unrelated to her question. :PResponses to Guest reviews:To "Guest" (1): Thank you! :DTo "Issy": Thanks for reviewing! The "idiots" as you call them, may be more dangerous than you think... ;)To "lyria": Thanks!To "Phoebe": Thank you! Next chapter will have some Glorfindel and Legolas bonding/friendship.To "Guest" (2): Thanks! Half the things you said in the first paragraph are actually going to happen. I would research Legolas's fighting style if I could remember the name of it. Maybe if I type in "fighting style based on evasion" in Google it will come up... I read a couple of the stories you mentioned but the other ones sound good. I'll go check them out. 


********** Page 10 **********

Chapter Nine: The Heir of IsildurThird Age 2931 (80 years ago...)Legolas was as content as someone who had little memory of his family or past could be. He was visiting Glorfindel in Imladris, sitting in the trees with the Balrog-Slayer and laughing as the oak the Vanyar perched on tried to playfully shake him off. Glorfindel clung to the tree with as much dignity as he could, glaring at Esgal with narrowed blue eyes. The other elf, his hood and cloth down to expose his features, looked back at him, his own violet eyes sparking with mirth."You're putting it up to this!" the Vanyar accused. "Tell it to stop! It won't listen to me!""I am doing nothing, mellon-nin," the Wood-Elf said innocently. "The tree does not like heavy warriors sitting in its boughs." His face showed nothing but blamelessness, but the Balrog-Slayer knew that the assassin was laughing inside."Are you calling me fat?" Glorfindel asked stiffly still clutching the branch like a new rider clung to a wild horse.Wide, mock-hurt violet eyes looked at him. "I would never call the Great, Powerful, Mysterious, Wise, Legendary Glorfindel of Imladris fat. I am only commenting that Rivendell warriors such as yourself have a bit more brawn than humble Wood Elves.""...I think I liked you better when you hid in the trees and refused to come down." Glorfindel muttered without malice.He was quite happy with how much the other had changed since they had first met. It had taken years for the assassin to gain the confidence to even sit near the Balrog-Slayer, so twitchy and on edge was the young elf. Once Glorfindel got Esgal to open up, the other had been quite sociable, smiling small smiles, chattering, and teasing the Vanyar to no end. He still carried a hint of his old nervousness, and it still resurfaced from time to time, but he was much more relaxed and trusting with the Balrog-Slayer."Why oh why did I teach you how to joke?" the Vanyar sighed. "I get enough teasing from the twins! You'd get along well."Like a switch being flicked, Esgal became withdrawn, looking at the ground and twirling a fallen twig between his fingers. His expression blanked out like a slate being wiped clean, revealing none of his thoughts. Glorfindel knew what he was thinking though. "I don't know..."Glorfindel decided he had lost his battle with the tree, leaping down to the ground before it could make him descend and land in an undignified heap to the forest floor. Instantly, the shaking stopped, and the Balrog-Slayer swore the tree was feeling smug. Esgal landed beside him, settling himself on the ground and patting the tree's trunk. He avoided the other's blue eyes, focusing on the thin limbs as they curled around his hand and forearm."You would get along, and be great friends." Glorfindel said firmly. "Though I fear that once I introduce you, the twins will use your sneaking skills to prank all of the Hidden Valley, and we would all be doomed.""I... would like to meet them someday." Esgal confessed with one of his small, reminiscent smiles. "But... not yet."Glorfindel sighed, accepting defeat— for now— and not pushing the assassin, but studied the younger with a serious expression. "You still have that feeling, don't you?""Yes." the violet-eyed elf admitted. He and the Vanyar had had this conversation before. It all sprung from the same deep-set, unexplainable instinct that had been haunting him for the past thirty years. "I want to show myself to the other elves— I really do— but something keeps holding me back. Its not fear of rejection from the masses anymore. I no longer care what the general populace thinks, but the instinct to remain hidden is still there. Its like... if I show myself now, something terrible will happen. If the feeling weren't so strong, I would ignore it. Its similar to when the trees speak to me, but it is different as well. Its like a warning..." Esgal looked at him with young yet old eyes. "Does that make sense?""Perhaps the Valar intend for you to stay hidden for a little longer," Glorfindel said, thoughtful. "Right now, few people know you exist. Many in Mirkwood suspect, but few know. Maybe there is a reason. Either way, it will be your decision when you want to reveal yourself. Yours, and no one else's." The Balrog-Slayer stood, clapping his hands together once. "Never mind that now. Would you like to spar, Esgal?"The assassin rose with hesitant grace. "I always kill, maim, injure, or knock out my opponents," he said uncomfortably. "I have not sparred in over three hundred years! What if I hurt you?"Glorfindel did not laugh off his concern as some might have done. Instead he was thoughtful, seriously considering Esgal's worries. The Balrog-Slayer knew how deadly and dangerous his friend was. The violet-eyed elf had done nothing but kill and incapacitate his opponents for hundreds of years. He never practiced his skills with a partner. Esgal only went through the motions on his own, and fought constantly enough that practice to keep his skills sharp was not entirely necessary."You won't," the Balrog-Slayer said confidently. "I trust you not to, even with your... instincts." He paused, mulling over his thoughts before speaking. "...Could you teach me any of it? Your fighting style?"Before meeting the assassin, Glorfindel would have thought that a fighting style based on evasion would be ineffective against a strong, fast warrior. However, Esgal was a master in his style, using it more in his relatively few years than many elven warriors did in their own long lifetimes. Elves learned to fight when war came about, or when the Shadow lingered. Esgal was brought up fighting from the young age of five, almost born to kill. His fighting style was a part of him, almost like an art, an intricate dance that few could learn."You will not be able to do many of the moves I can," Esgal said slowly. "You cannot bend and move like I do: you do not have the speed or flexibility. But I can teach you other things, like my knowledge of pressure-points and some basic dodges and retaliations for if you lose your sword in battle. If you are willing to learn them, of course.""I am." Glorfindel stated, grinning like a child who had just received a present. "First, I'll help you to relearn how to spar. Then, I'd like to learn some of those moves."Esgal mirrored his eager smile, the nervousness leaving his eyes. Glorfindel trusted him not to hurt him, and was curious of his knowledge, despite its assassin-like nature. Thanks to his friendship with the Vanyar, the assassin knew that not all elves were as perfect, mysterious, and Light as outsiders believed. Glorfindel had his moments of bloodthirsty rage— specifically when orcs hurt someone dear to him—, told jokes, and cursed like a human sailor when provoked. While some like the Lady of the Light were the image of what men and dwarves thought elves acted like, most elves were as diverse, mixed, and sometimes flawed as the other races. It made them more... familiar in a way.What Legolas said was true. If not for that foreboding feeling he could not explain, he would have revealed himself to the elves long ago. Thanks to Glorfindel he no longer feared rejection from the masses because of his lack of an inner light. Because of the elf he no longer thought his skills in assassination and his ability to freeze enemies with his eyes were unnatural for an elf. Truth be told, he wanted to meet the other elves he had only watched from a distance, like Elrohir, Elladan, Elrond, Erestor, and even that elf Fael that he had saved long ago. But the dread and warning would not fade, and so he remained hidden. He decided, for now, it was better to remain a secret weapon and ally in the shadows, rather than emerge into the light.LOTRLOTRLOTRLegolas was in a good mood when he bade Glorfindel farewell. He had not only been able to teach the Balrog-Slayer a few of his hindering pressure-point techniques, but they had sparred without the assassin slipping up. At first, the violet-eyes elf had been tense and awkward in his movements, so afraid of hurting the other was he. Glorfindel had not pushed him as much as he could, knowing how dangerous doing so would be, instead letting Legolas gradually become comfortable with sparring, without the need to maim, knock out, or kill. The assassin had quickly remembered his old sparring lessons with Ciaran, and fighting for practice and fun became easier after that.The assassin had won three times, and Glorfindel won once. Then again, that had been early on, and was only because Legolas had been unsure of himself. It was a relief to know that he was capable of fighting without knocking out, hurting, or killing his opponent. He had still used basic restraining moves in the spar, but no pressure points to incapacitate. For a moment, he had not been an assassin, merely a warrior sparring with his friend to test their skills and have fun. It had been nice.Now it was time for him to go. Legolas had been in Imladris for the past week, and with no more orcs in the area, it was time for him to leave. He was and always would be a free spirit, not content with staying in one place for long. Mirkwood was the exception, of course. It truly was his home, and he would always go there to unwind or if he needed to think. Still, Legolas continued to travel around Middle-earth, making sure to visit Bilbo in Hobbiton and Glorfindel in Imladris at least once a year.Glorfindel never changed, but the elf could see Bilbo gradually aging. He still had plenty of life left, but the fact that the little hobbit-child he had met was gone sometimes saddened Legolas, and made him recall the grief of mortality. Once again he was reminded of Ciaran, and wondered if it truly was wise to attach himself to mortals. Belladonna had already passed, two years ago now. The grief was still fresh in Legolas's mind, though it had not hindered him like the abruptness of Ciaran's passing. Belladonna had known she was dying, wasting away because of a sickness in her bones. Legolas and Bilbo had had time to prepare, but her death still hurt fiercely. Bilbo still had time left, yes, but one day he too would die, his life only a flicker of a candle in the expanse of Legolas's long immortal life...The elf's sixth sense tingled. He snapped to attention, halting in the treetops as his head whipped to the right. He did not even need to think, bow drawn and arrow notched to the string as he raced towards the familiar, evil presences. He had been sure there were no orcs nearby. In fact, he knew there had not been any this morning. The elf closed his eyes, focusing, listening to the trees and nature around him. His sixth sense heightened, picking up each individual presence. He counted nineteen orcs, the same number of wargs and... three— no, four— humans.Legolas headed towards the spot, pausing in the edge of the trees. He could see every detail of the scene in front of him. Only feet from the trees, three humans— two males, one female— were surrounded by the orcs and wargs. They were dirty and tired, obviously having run a long way. One male was on the ground, pale and bleeding heavily from a wound on his side. Even from his perch Legolas could see the tired, fading look in his eyes. It was obvious he was dying.The woman— his wife?— lay next to him, eyes blank and glassy. She was young, and had been beautiful once, but years of travel had worn down her face, exposure to the elements aging her beyond her years. She already gone. Finally, there was the second man— older than the woman, younger than the dying man— standing tense in the center of the circle. Legolas recognized the cloak of a Ranger, and admired the man's courage as he glared at the orcs, clutching a bundle to his chest......Valar forbid was that a baby?!A feral growl escaped the elf's lips and the closest warg flinched, looking around nervously for whatever had caused that predatory sound. Its rider cuffed it, making it still and turn back to the humans. Legolas plucked two more arrows, holding them to his bow, one each between his fingers. He sighted carefully. He did not know why the orcs were waiting until the man on the ground died to attack the Ranger and the babe he held. Perhaps they wanted something from the Ranger, or just wanted him to see the other man die. Or maybe, like savage animals, they wanted him to be afraid and begging before they killed him. It did not matter.The man on the ground gurgled and gasped, drawing his final breath before passing. Legolas drew back and fired, all three arrows hitting their targets. The arrows were silent-killers, not whistling or making a sound as they passed through the air like deadly, taloned birds. As soon as the first three were released, three more were in their place, flying though the air and felling wargs and their riders.The Ranger reacted first, racing towards the trees through the clear path Legolas had made for him. The wargs howled and ran after the human, a couple tripping over their dead kin as they chased him towards the forest. The Ranger was fast on his feet, dodging arrows like an elf and protecting the bundle he carried with his own body. As he passed beneath the assassin's perch, Legolas leapt down from the trees, pulling down his hood so the man could see he was an elf."Rivendell is north of here." he said rapidly. "Get the child there. I will hold them off. Go.""Thank you." the man gasped and continued running, his tired body finding new strength.Legolas spun to the left, shooting a warg that tried to run past him, turning to the right and felling another. Two more died the same way before the orcs decided converging on and slaying the archer would be to their benefit. He would be easy to take out, and then they could pursue their prey without problems. Or so they thought.Legolas unsheathed his knives, leaping forward and plunging one blade into a warg's head, another into its rider's chest. He spun, ducking, and grabbed a spear that was stabbed at him. He jerked it free of its owner's hold, throwing it at another orc that tried to get into the woods, and striking the owner's throat with his knife. He shot another warg, letting it crush its rider beneath it, kicking another orc off its mount and smiling grimly as the beast ran headlong into a tree.Two more Warg Riders ran at the elf, snarling and snapping rabidly. The elf watched them coolly, waiting. They swung at him with swords, and he ducked beneath their blades, lunging upright to slash both wargs down their sides as they ran past. The beasts fell, one orc trapped while the other flew free of his mount. Rapid and merciless, Legolas flew through the enemies, knives a blur as he finished off any survivors.He went still, counting the bodies, and cursed. One orc and warg pair was missing. Taking to the trees, he ran after the Ranger and the one surviving Rider that pursued him and the child. He had seen how tired the Ranger was, and how he had had only a hunting knife for a weapon. He would not be able to outrun the Rider, and he would not last long in a fight.Protect them, he told the trees. Protect them, please!Its too late, they whispered, voices sad and low in grief. He is injured.No!Legolas's sharp eyes zeroed in on the black form of the orc, standing over the Ranger as he lay helpless on the ground. The orc was covered with odd scratches on his face and chest, but stood smirking over the fallen man. Silent as a shadow, the assassin leapt down from the trees, slamming into the orc with his knives buried into the monster's shoulder and side. The orc staggered, roaring in shock and its mount pounced at Legolas. The elf twisted smoothly out of the warg's path, stabbing it through the eye before kicking the orc's head so hard its neck snapped.The orc had not yet fallen to the ground when the elf was at the Ranger's side, kneeling beside him. The Ranger was breathing heavily, face ashen and blood trickling from his lips. A crimson stain on his tunic over his abdomen told Legolas of his injury. The elf put pressure on the wound."Hold on, mellon-nin. I will get you help.""No—" the Ranger gasped. "The b-boy—" He tried to rise, barely moving before collapsing back to the ground."Where is he?" Legolas asked, seeing the Ranger would only rest when he knew the baby was safe.One hand rose shakily, pointing at a tree. The elf spotted a space beneath its roots, just big enough o fit something small. He rose and approached it, noting how the tree's limbs were curled unnaturally downward, as if they were spears ready to stab.I would not let it near, the tree said proudly, brandishing its sharp branches. I scratched it when it came close.Well done, my friend, Legolas said to it, relief obvious in his tone.He knelt down and the tree roots shifted, opening up and revealing the baby sleeping inside. The child was tiny and soft-looking, with pudgy cheeks tinted a light rose color, only a few months old at the most. He was wrapped in a simple brown blanket and had dark, wavy hair. His hair had the look of locks that would be quite unruly when he was older. Legolas gently lifted the boy, trying to recall anything and everything Belladonna had ever told him about young children.Hold him in the crook of my arm. Support his head. Make sure he cannot fall. Be careful...Only great physical control kept the assassin from shaking. He had never held a baby before. Ever. And this one was so small and fragile looking. What if he dropped him? What if he broke him? Ciaran had never prepared him for something like this! Assassins and babies did not mix. And in this moment, the tiny babe was depending solely on an assassin. Hiding his panic, Legolas knelt beside the Ranger."I have him. He is safe."The Ranger smiled gently, reaching up a trembling hand to brush back the baby's dark hair. "T-Take him to L-Lord Elrond." he gasped, shuddering and quickly withdrawing from touching the child. "H-He must take c-care of him."The Ranger knew he was dying. So did Esgal, but he still said. "I can get you to him—""T-too late." the Ranger whispered, unknowingly echoing the trees. "Y-You must tell Lord E-Elrond. The child is A-Aragorn, Son of Arathorn. Give h-him this."The Ranger reached into his pocket, pulling out a ring. He dropped it into Legolas's hand, and the elf's eyes widened in shock. Sitting in his palm was the Ring of Barahir, the heirloom that signified the Royal Line of Isildur. The assassin had learned all about the Rings of Power, Isildur, and the Prophecy in Dol Guldur. The child in his arms was the Heir to the throne of Gondor."K-Keep it secret." the Ranger mumbled, eyes already losing their sight. "Only t-tell Elrond... and the c-closest ones h-he trusts. The Shadow... c-cannot... f-find him..."His eyes closed as his spirit fled, giving in to the pull of death. The elf beside him had to look away, whispering a a soft prayer in Sindarin. No matter how many battles Legolas fought in and how many deaths he witnessed, he could never get used to the sight of death. With Men, elves, and other Free Peoples, he could almost sense the departure of their spirit, leaving the body an empty husk and the elf severely shaken. Where the person's spirit resided, the elf could see a void. Legolas cradled the slumbering child in his arms, suddenly feeling very lost and alone. He looked down at the sleeping baby, and felt great worry and protectiveness rise in his heart.You carry a great burden, Aragorn, Son of Arathorn. Your line is destined to take part in the destruction of Sauron, and the birth of a new age. How is it that you, a child so small, can carry such weight? Then again, for now you are ignorant. And it is more than likely that you will remain ignorant for many years to come, the elf mused silently.He stood carefully as to not wake the child, and turned away from the Ranger's body. He would have liked to cover him up or bury him, but would and could not with the child in his arms. He had to get Aragorn to Rivendell.The baby slept on for the first hour of the journey before he began to stir. Legolas halted on a tree limb, staring down at the waking Aragorn with alarm. He had no idea what to do! What if the child cried? What if he was hungry? The elf really hoped the baby did not need his diaper changed.Large eyes fluttered and opened slowly, revealing silver orbs. Aragorn stared at the elf carrying him with confusion on his face before he giggled, reaching up at grabbing the assassin's hair. Legolas smiled nervously, relaxing as Aragorn remained content merely playing with and chewing on the elf's long blonde hair. It was a little disgusting but mostly cute, and the assassin could see how so many people could be drawn in by a baby's simple charms.He continued on his way, subconsciously rocking the boy and hoping his quietness and contentment would last. Other than the occasional giggle and coo, Aragorn stayed mostly quiet. He was not hungry or wet, so there was no need to bawl. Besides, the pointy-eared long-haired man's hair was fun to pull, like Mama's.As he ran Legolas wondered if the child was always this quiet or if he had learned to be silent after being hunted on the road. Based on the thinness and exhaustion surrounding his mother— it saddened Legolas that he did not know her or the Ranger's names—, Arathorn, and the Ranger, they had been running for a while, away from civilization.It angered the elf that anything would make a baby's life so dangerous, and hunt the child because of who his ancestors were. He would have to be careful who he told that Aragorn was the Heir of Isildur. Then again, would he be telling many people. Legolas halted once more, Aragorn falling asleep in his arms. How could he get the baby to Lord Elrond without revealing himself? It was still not time. The answer was obvious the moment Legolas thought of the question.Glorfindel.The elf glanced at the sun, judging the time of day. The Balrog-Slayer would be at the training grounds right now. He turned left, heading towards them instead of Rivendell's main gate. Aragorn was asleep once more, snuggling into the warmth of Legolas's chest. The elf pushed himself, not stopping until he reached the clearing of trees where the Rivendell training grounds were.He instantly spotted Glorfindel swinging a sword at some dummies, but also saw two more shapes sparring nearby. The twin sons of Elrond were deep in a mock battle nearby, trapped in a stalemate. All of them were in lighter and less ornate versions of Rivendell warrior armor, practicing their skills like Glorfindel and Legolas had earlier that day. Laughing and joking with Glorfindel that morning suddenly seemed so far away, as if the assassin had been transferred to another dimension as peace and fun was replaced by war and death. Then again, that was the life Legolas was used to, so he took it in stride.Shifting Aragorn to one arm, he put is hood over his head, pulling his face-cloth up. The assassin purposely stepped on a twig, and was almost amused when the three elves' heads snapped in his direction simultaneously. They moved into a triangle, Glorfindel in front, the twins behind, swords held at the ready."Who is there?" one twin called.LOTRLOTRLOTR"Who is there?" Elladan shouted, sword held defensively as he stared suspiciously at the shadows beneath the trees. "Show yourself!"His twin was beside him, with Glorfindel slightly ahead. All three stared intently into the darkness. For a moment noting moved, and Elladan prepared to call again. He knew something was there. Then a green-cloaked shape emerged from the shadows, walking cautiously forward. One hand was offered in a peaceful gesture to show he held no weapons, while the other held something protectively to his chest. All three elves blinked as what had appeared to be a bundle of cloth moved, dark hair peeking over the edge of the blanket. A baby?"Glorfindel." the stranger greeted simply, an accent Elladan recognized as a Man of the North's coming from his lips.The Balrog-Slayer instantly relaxed, sheathing his sword. "Brian. Welcome to Imladris."The twins remained wary. "You know him?" Elladan asked cautiously."Yes. Brian is a Ranger of the North. I met him a few years ago." Glorfindel said shortly. His blue eyes dropped to the bundle and a small smile crossed his face. "I did not know you had a child.""He is not mine." Brian said softly, sadness in his tone. He went as if to speak but did not, glancing sidelong at the twins. "You are the twin sons of Elrond?""Yes." Elrohir said when his brother did not reply."Then you can be trusted." Brian said.He turned the bundle, revealing a young baby with thick dark hair. The child stirred as he was moved. Silver eyes opened halfway for a moment and looked around vaguely at the elves before closing once more. Brian readjusted the baby, holding him securely with his head on his shoulder."This is Aragorn, Son of Arathorn, and Isildur's Heir." the Ranger revealed. "Arathorn and the boy's mother are dead."Grief clouded Glorfindel's blue eyes but the twins looked at each other in shock. They had thought the line of Gondorian Kings had been broken long ago. History said that the last King of Gondor and his family had been murdered, leaving no one to inherit the throne in Minas Tirith and complete the prophecy detailing Sauron's doom."This is Isildur's Heir?" Elladan demanded. "Are you sure?"Mutely, Brian stepped forward, dropping the Ring of Barahir into the twin's hand. Elladan turned over the ring in his hands, the emeralds glinting in the little bit of light still remaining as twilight crept up on the forest. Brian looked at Glorfindel."My Chieftan told me to bring the child to Rivendell, and leave him in Lord Elrond's care..."Glorfindel nodded, stepping forward to accept the baby. Brian hesitated, looking down at the child. His muscles tensed as he stared at the child. Glorfindel's eyes saddened and he let the Ranger hold the boy just a little longer. Finally, Brian kissed Aragorn's forehead briefly before passing him to the Balrog-Slayer."Goodbye, little one." he murmured. His cowled head looked up, and although they were unable to see his eyes, the elves knew that the Ranger was looking at them with the intensity of an Elf Lord. They could feel the pressure of his gaze, as if the Valar themselves were staring at them. "Keep him safe."And he vanished. He was gone without the tiniest hint of movement. Elrohir leapt back in shock and Elladan jumped. Both were stunned by the Ranger's rapid disappearance. One moment he was there, the next, he was gone. Glorfindel looked both surprised and thoughtful, along with a little sad."How did he just do that?" the older twin gasped, heart beating rapidly. "Not even an elf can vanish like that!""Perhaps he was a ghost," Glorfindel murmured, barely amused by his joke.He knew why Esgal had left so abruptly. The elf was upset, and did not want to lengthen the goodbye he had to say to the baby he had so quickly become attached to. Also, his fast departure stopped any questions and invitations the elves may have put forward to have "Brian" come to the Last Homely House. Glorfindel looked at the sons of Elrond, who were still wide-eyed and trembling. When Esgal revealed himself and things were not so stern, the Vanyar would definitely have to employ the assassin when planning to prank the twins. But now was not the time for that."Lets get back to the Last Homely House." Glorfindel said.He positioned his warrior cloak carefully so few would notice the baby he carried, and the three elves walked quickly back to Rivendell. Elrond met them outside the door, with Erestor at his side. Both were dressed in robes, with Elrond in dark blue and Erestor in a emerald shade of green. All of the elves were beginning to glow as darkness descended over Arda, their inner light illuminating their features. Elrond welcomed his sons and friend with a smile."You are back— What happened?" the Elf Lord's mood changed instantly as he spotted the serious expressions on his sons' and friend's faces.Glorfindel stepped forward, letting his cloak fall back, and handed Aragorn to the stunned Elf Lord. Elladan gave his father the Ring of Barahir, which the Half-Elf studied for half a minute. No words needed to be spoken. He knew what had occurred, and what this meant. Still, he looked up at them, needing confirmation."Arathorn is dead?""Yes." Glorfindel confirmed."I did not see this." Elrond confessed, staring down at the babe. "Actually, I did, but the boy was at least four, not a few-month old babe! And Gilraen, she was killed as well?""Yes." Elrohir echoed the Vanyar.Elrond's expression grew increasingly grave. "In my vision, she survived. I told Arathorn of my vision but I thought they would be safe for a while yet. However, we all know visions are not always right. Still, they died so young...""At least Aragorn is safe," Erestor said. "The line of Kings endures."Elrond looked at him sharply, scanning the outside world with wary, suspicious eyes. "That name is not safe, even here. We should not call him that or tell him of his heritage before he is fully grown, at least twenty years old in human years.""Will you adopt him, Adar?" Elrohir asked."Of course," the Elf Lord replied without hesitation. "He is my distant nephew after all. And if Amulug or his followers have any objections—""I can finally kick him out of Rivendell?" Glorfindel asked hopefully."Perhaps," Elrond said darkly. "Aragorn has a small bit of elven blood, thanks to his heritage. That is enough for him to have a right to stay here and call Rivendell home.""What should we call him, since his birth name is not safe?" Erestor asked, getting back to the main point.The elves all looked at the slumbering child, so innocent and peaceful despite the horror he had experienced. His future would not be easy, and he had a destiny and burden on his shoulders few would be able to comprehend. All the elves could hope for was that he would become great, and finally unite and save the world that was slowly sinking into Shadow. He was not only the Hope of Men, but the hope of all races that created the Free Peoples of Middle-earth.Aragorn snuffled and cooed, a tiny fist reaching up to grip Elrond's dark hair. Silver eyes opened, looking at the elf, and a bubbly giggle was Aragorn's greeting to the Lord. Elrond smiled at the babe in his arms, swooping down to kiss the tiny forehead covered by thick, dark hair. The warm love of a father holding his newborn child had risen in the Elf Lord. His paternal instincts were returning, and he found himself more at ease and hopeful than he had been in a long time.Hope..."We shall call him Estel." Elrond decided, and all of the elves agreed with him.LOTRLOTRLOTRTranslation:Estel: HopeMellon-nin: My friendAdar: FatherA/N: Congratulations, Elrond! Its a boy! :P Sorry for updating late. Life got in the way. Yeah, Legolas put on a fake "Man's" accent, which told Glorfindel he wanted to be known as "Brian the "Ranger"" not "Esgal".Thanks for all of the awesome reviews! :DResponses to Guest reviews:To "Issy": Thanks!To "lyria": Thank you!To "Lys": Kid Bilbo is so cute! Its great to know I wrote Gandalf so well. Thank you!To "Emilz": Oops! Thanks for telling me. I should go fix that...To "Water dragon": Thank you!Please review!


********** Page 11 **********

Chapter Ten: A Very Unexpected PartyThird Age 2941 (70 years ago...)Legolas was enjoying lunch in Bag End, staying in Bilbo's home for the duration if his visit this year. The hobbit could never figure out how Esgal could get to his house in broad daylight without being seen by the many hobbits outside. Then again, a part of Bilbo did not want to think about it. Sometimes the elf's ability to hide in plain sight was a little more than unnerving.The hobbit's home was well-lit and spacious, for a hobbit that is. Bilbo's family was always a little well-off and with their desire of know things they needed a lot of room for their trinkets and books. The evidence of Bilbo's almost pack-rat habit was around the two. Books, maps, antiques, and old family heirlooms were scattered around the house, organized yet somehow a little messy at the same time.When he came to visit, Legolas would more often than not find Bilbo poring over a map, reading about far distant lands, or smoking his pipe, deep in thought. The elf knew that the hobbit had a longing for adventure, a fire in his heart and blood that made him want to go out and explore the world. He repressed it, acting like a respectable, normal, everyday hobbit, but Legolas could still see how his eyes would stray to the maps and a forlorn look would appear on his face.The elf had half a mind to let Bilbo to travel with him, and had even asked the hobbit a few times, but the Master of Bag End always said no. The "no"s were slower to come and less certain than they had been, but were still a "no"s. But, no matter what Bilbo liked to pretend, he always liked to hear stories of Legolas's travels and adventures. His eyes would grow as large as they had when he was a child, but they held a more serious expression than they once had."I've been thinking..." Bilbo said as they ate, the hobbit much more than Legolas."Should I be worried?" the elf asked.Bilbo glared at him. "Your wit astounds me. Any way, I've been wondering about..." He suddenly became hesitant, looking at Legolas almost nervously. "About... your past. And you. You know a lot about my family history and my life in the Shire when I was a child, but I don't know much about your childhood..."Legolas looked down at his plate, sighing deeply. He had not even revealed his training in Dol Guldur to Glorfindel. Ciaran's death still pained him from time to time and many things had happened in the fortress the elf would rather not speak about. Glorfindel never asked about his past, seeing it made the assassin uncomfortable, and was content with whatever information the young elf decided to tell him. Legolas was not the type to tell his life story, not even to his closest friends. After all, they did not even know his birth name was Legolas.He barely thought of himself as Legolas at times, and was almost willing to leave that name behind him completely. Then he would remember that Legolas was the name Ciaran called him and knew him by. That one thought was enough for the assassin to remember and honor his name, but not enough for him to use it. He was Esgal, and Esgal he would remain until he found the answers he did not yet seek."You don't have to tell me anything." Bilbo said hurriedly when he noticed his friend's expression. "It's your choice."The elf rose a hand to halt his awkward babbling. "I think I should talk to someone, and tell all that has happened in my past." Legolas murmured. "For your safety, I will not mention names or places, and I must warn you that my story is not a happy one."Legolas told him everything, keeping out only names and places, and using basic, general words instead. Ciaran was "Father", The Witch-King was "Lord" or "Delorcion", Dol Guldur was "the Fortress", the orcs and evil Men were "the monsters/creatures", and so on. He told of his capture and mother's death, the events after, his training, everything up until his escape and Ciaran's death. Bilbo listened with an open ear, not gasping or "ah-ing" like one would when telling a story. This was no story. This was Esgal's past, and every terrifying, happy, or sad event he told of was personal and real.The hobbit showed great sympathy and concern for his friend, stiffening when he told of the "Delorcion's" plan to bind him with Dark Magic and crying when Ciaran died. By the end of it, Legolas felt better, glad to have finally told someone. He noticed Bilbo's lingering silence."I hope I have not burdened you with this, mellon-nin.""Of course not," Bilbo said softly. He stood up, walked over to Esgal, and gave him a hug, just like he would when the hobbit was a child. Legolas was stunned by the gesture, returning it awkwardly. "I'm glad you told me." the hobbit said. "Its just... you don't remember your past before being captured? Any of it?""No." Legolas said softly."Have you tried...?" Bilbo stopped, smacking himself on the forehead. "That's a stupid question. Of course you've tried to regain your memories.""I've had no luck." the elf admitted. "I cannot remember faces, places, names, or even if I had a stuffed bear. There is no memory, other than the attack and my Naneth's death. I can barely remember her face anymore. Her voice, personality, and name are all gone."Bilbo's eyes clouded before he he sat up straight. His expression cleared and he smiled at Legolas. "At least you have memories of Ciaran. And you have me, Radagast, Glorfindel, and the new memories you'll forge with us." He hesitated, his ears turning red, but pressed on, determined to make his friend smile. "Like that time Mama punished me when I was small by making me wear a dress for an entire day."It worked, and the assassin chuckled. "I will never forget that. It was just by luck that I decided to drop in for a visit that day... Pink is definitely your color, Bilbo."The hobbit's cheeks matched his ears. "Well, I plan on never wearing pink or a dress again, thank you very much."They shared a smile. Bilbo poked at his food before eating it quite daintily for a hobbit. Legolas followed suit and a companionable silence came over them. A knock on the door made both pause, looking at each other."If its a Sackville-Baggins I swear..." Bilbo muttered, rising to his feet. "I'm coming. I'm coming!"He walked towards the door, another set of more insistent knocks sounding. Bilbo pulled the napkin out of the front of his shirt, stuffing it into his pocket. He jabbed the tip of his forefinger into the pipe he had in the pocket and cursed softly. Annoyed, he took the object out of his pocket, holding it in his hand. Bilbo opened the circular door, and his heart skipped a beat.Standing on his doorstep, tall and cloaked in gray with a long wooden staff in one hand, was Gandalf. The hobbit stared mutely at the Wizard for a moment, thoughts scattering in a thousand different directions. Gandalf was here, on his doorstep, for the first time in years, when Esgal was sitting at his dining room table. Esgal, who specifically, most certainly, absolutely did not want to meet or see the elves or Wizards yet— Radagast and Glorfindel being the exceptions. The hobbit stared blankly at Gandalf for another minute before speaking."Can I help you?" Well, that was a little rude, Bilbo mentally chided himself."Bilbo Baggins." the Wizard said. "Don't you recognize me?""Uh..." Bilbo said, trying to think of a way to warn Esgal without alerting Gandalf something was up.The Wizard took his frazzled, confused look as a "No" and spoke. "Come now, Bilbo. I'm disappointed that the son of Belladonna Took cannot take the time to remember me.""Um." was Bilbo's intelligent response. "Er, uh, yes! Of course I remember you!" Gandalf brightened. "You're Gandalf! You make those wonderful fireworks." Bilbo could swear the Wizard drooped, from exasperation or annoyance he could not tell. I need to get him to leave, Bilbo thought. Etiquette be damned. I know Gandalf is friendly but he would tell the elves— or even worse, Saruman— about Esgal. He's not ready to face his kin yet, and from what Esgal tells me Saruman cannot be trusted any more than an orc. Gandalf cannot know about Esgal. Bilbo shifted on his feet uncomfortably as an awkward silence reigned on. "Is there something you need?""I'm looking for someone—" Bilbo almost had a heart attack. "—to join with me on an adventure." the Wizard said, looking at him keenly.The hobbit chewed the end of his unlit pipe. "I'm afraid you won't find any hobbits willing to go on an adventure here. I suggest you go to Bree. Some crazy fool there will go with you... wherever it is you're going."Gandalf pierced him with wise blue eyes, bushy eyebrows lowering down over the aged orbs. "All right then, Bilbo. I can see when I'm not wanted.""Hm." the hobbit said vaguely. Leave. Leave. Please just leave.The hobbit nodded firmly and shut the door, breathing outward in a sharp gust. He paused, sure he heard something from the other side, and peered through the curtains. Gandalf's bright blue eyes stared back at him and he yelped in surprise, leaping back. When he looked again, the Wizard was walking out the gate, staff tapping against the ground. Bilbo let out another breath, relieved, and turned."GAH!" he half-squeaked, half-shrieked.Esgal was standing there, staring intently at the door."Don't sneak up on me like that," Bilbo chided. "Can't you learn how to make some noise when you move."The elf shrugged easily, still looking at the door. "Who was that?"Bilbo's annoyance faded, a serious look coming over his face. "Gandalf was here. I was a little unwelcoming with him and sent him on his way, don't worry."The worried look on Esgal's face faded and he smiled at the hobbit. "Thank you, Bilbo. I appreciate that you'd let him think you're a stiff, respectable hobbit for my sake." the teasing vanished and the light blonde-haired elf frowned. "What did Gandalf need you for?"Bilbo snorted. "He wanted me to go on some adventure with him. No thank you, I'm happy here, at bag End. I don't want an adventure.""Are you sure?" Esgal questioned. "There is much to see in Middle-earth. There are many beautiful places to visit.""There are also many dangers," Bilbo pointed out. "And from the sounds of it, this "adventure" wouldn't be a tourist trip. Knowing Gandalf, I'd probably end up in a Spider's nest. I'm happy with being a respectable hobbit, thank you."The elf looked at him with a mix of amusement and knowing. "If you say so." He glanced outside with piercing violet eyes. "While Gandalf is here I will make myself scarce. I will return tonight."With that, the elf vanished out the door, none of the hobbits noticing him as he left Bag End.LOTRLOTRLOTRThat night found the two at another meal, Bilbo just putting two cooked fish on two plates. Esgal had returned earlier that evening, prepared to leave the next morn. He would be heading straight back to Mirkwood, having been away from the darkening forest for over six months. He should return."Why did Gandalf have to come today?" Bilbo sighed."I could come back in less than a year," Esgal offered.The hobbit shook his head. "No. You're needed in Mirkwood, to keep the shadowed trees calm. They're getting worse and more violent, you said, and they'll only listen to you.""You are right," Esgal said, sounding tired and a little withdrawn.His violet eyes were dark and far away, and his pale, perfectly carved features were tight with strain and something Bilbo could not decipher. Esgal could still hide his emotions like he had none, but Bilbo noticed as the years went by that the elf was willing to show his own worry and pain a little more each visit. Bilbo instantly felt bad about bringing up the darkness in his friend's home. At least this time Esgal had not put his "assassin face" on. That lack of expression terrified Bilbo at times, and the hobbit knew that the elf could see that. Maybe that was why Esgal let emotions show here that he would normally hide."Sorry." Bilbo apologized.The pain vanished, covered up by the awkward, strained smile Esgal tried to use around Bilbo instead of his emotionless mask. "It is not your fault that the Shadow is growing steadily stronger." his friend said gently. He ran a hand through his long, pale blonde hair. "It is just... draining. To see my home spiraling down so slowly..." He shook his head and set his jaw. "No. I will not speak of my troubles here and ruin the last part of my visit. So tell me, Bilbo. Have the Sackville-Bagginses still been bothering you?"Bilbo nodded, a scowl appearing on his face. "They're lunatics, the lot of them! They want Bag End, you know, so they can sell all of the antiques and heirlooms inside. I do not dare think about what would happen if I somehow gained a small fortune—" A knock sounded on the door. "Valar curse it! Another visitor?"Esgal looked at the door, a knowing smile on his face. "Go on and answer it."Was Bilbo imagining things, or did the assassin sound amused?Pushing his friend's odd mood to the back of his mind, the hobbit walked up to the door for the second time that day. He twisted the knob, opening it... and gaped. A dwarf was standing on his doorstep. He had dark hair and a bushy beard, an earring in each ear. He wore his weapons openly, and had the feel of a warrior, almost like Esgal. Well, not quite like Esgal, who was mush more alert and ready to fight even when half asleep, but almost the same. Bilbo could see the dwarf's eyes roaming around as he looked for danger, one hand on his weapon.Even though the dwarf was not much taller than Bilbo, he seemed to loom over the hobbit. He seemed like the type of person to get in a bar fight against ten others when extremely drunk... and win. The dwarf's eyes landed on the hobbit, piercing and scrutinizing him. Bilbo swallowed nervously, but was more annoyed and confused than intimidated."Dwalin, at your service." the dwarf said."Uh." Bilbo said dumbly. "Bilbo Baggins... at yours. D-Do we know each other?""No." the dwarf growled and pushed past the hobbit, walking into the house. He looked around the house. "Which way laddie? Is it down here?""Is what down where?" Bilbo asked.He glanced at the kitchen to see that Esgal had vanished. Before he had time to wonder where the elf had gone, Dwalin threw his cloak at the hobbit. Bilbo caught it, a befuddled expression on his face. The dwarf grinned at him, heading towards the kitchen."Supper. He said there'd be food. Lots of it.""He-He said?" Bilbo spluttered. "Who said?"Dwalin did not answer, instead sitting down and eating Bilbo's fish. As a person who did not know Bilbo, he did not think that the second fish and plate was odd, eating that too. Bilbo watched with a mix of shock, disgust, and anger as the dwarf devoured his and Esgal's meal. The hobbit's eyes flicked around the room and paused on a closet that's door was the smallest bit ajar. Bilbo backed away from the dwarf, standing outside the closet. Dwalin was too busy eating to notice."What are you doing?" Bilbo hissed softly.Esgal's voice drifted out from the closet, tinged with amusement. "Observing. There's another dwarf coming, plus some more on their way. They're causing quite a stir— your neighbors are noticing them. They're not exactly quiet. The next one should knock right about... now."There was a pounding on the door. Muttering a curse, Bilbo hurried to the door, opening it to reveal a second dwarf. This one had white hair and a bushy white beard."Balin, at your service," the white-haired dwarf said with a bow."...Good evening." Bilbo said weakly."Yes, yes it is." Balin said with a smile. He walked into the house. Did these dwarves know the meaning of the words "private property" or "home invasion"? "Am I late?""For what?" Bilbo asked, dread rising within him.Balin did not answer, catching sight of Dwalin and greeting him happily. The two smiled, grasping each other's arms... before headbutting each other. They laughed and chattered, ignoring Bilbo as he tried to get their attention."I'm not entirely sure you're in the right house..." the hobbit said.There was a knock on the door. Resisting the urge to groan, Bilbo reluctantly pulled it open, revealing two more dwarves. One was blonde, the other brown-haired, and both had near-identical grins on their faces."Fili." the blonde one said."And Kili." the brown-haired one said."At your service." they chorused.Bilbo greeted them wearily, thinking, How many more are there?Within a few minutes, twelve dwarves were in Bilbo's kitchen, along with Gandalf. Bilbo was rushing around the house, trying his best to keep the dwarves from ruining it. Chairs were moved, maps pushed off tables, and his pantry was raided. The hobbit could only watch, astounded, as the fat dwarf— Bombur might have been his name— wandered out of the pantry with four blocks of cheese in his arms."Put that back! Put that back! Don't touch that! That's an antique! That's a book not a coaster! Put that map down!" he shouted, running around and flailing like a chicken with its head cut off.Yet while this was all going on, he carefully kept the dwarves away from the closet where Esgal was hiding. "No. Don't go in there. Off limits." he would say firmly whenever a dwarf approached the closet. It was hard to keep track of them all. There's so many of them! And they're obviously not leaving. Why did Gandalf tell them to come here of all places? The hobbit silently whined. Bilbo did not need to look to know the assassin in the closet was laughing at him, watching the scene with utter amusement.The Grey Wizard pointedly ignored Bilbo's glare, counting the dwarves around him. "Fili, Kili. Oin, Gloin. Dwalin, Balin, Bifur, Bofur, Bombur. Dori, Nori, Ori... We appear to be one dwarf short.""He is late is all. He met with our kin to the north," Dwalin said. "He will come."As the twelve dwarves began a food fight in the kitchen, the hobbit whose house they had invaded crept away, to a closet close to the other room. "Esgal?" he whispered. "Can you leave now?""One more is coming." the hidden elf replied softly. "Once he arrives, I will depart."Bilbo scowled. He could hear the amusement in Esgal's tone. "You may find this very funny—"There was three solid knocks on the door. The dwarves quieted, all looking out into the hall. Gandalf smoked his pipe, smiling slightly."He is here."The Wizard opened the door, revealing a serious-looking, majestic dwarf standing on Bilbo's doorstep."Gandalf," he greeted, entering Bag End. "I thought you said this place would be easy to find. I wouldn't have found it at all if not for that mark on the door."Bilbo's eye twitched and he glared at Gandalf fiercely. The Istar almost winced. If he did not know any better, Mithrandir would have sworn that the hobbit had been taught to glare by an elf."Bilbo Baggins, allow me to introduce the leader of our company. Thorin Oakenshield."Bilbo had heard of the King Under the Mountain from Esgal. He knew what Thorin and his people had gone through, and how much the King had sacrificed and done for them. So when he spoke, he bowed low and his voice was tinged with obvious respect. "It is an honor to meet you." he said sincerely.A couple of the dwarves exchanged confused or stunned glances. Gandalf looked slightly taken aback and Thorin's eyes brightened with surprise. Bilbo took the moment they were all musing and stunned by what he said to glance over his shoulder. The closet door was closed, a leaf stuck to the handle. Bilbo knew what that meant. Esgal was gone. The hobbit prepared himself to face this new guest, waiting with a patience taught to him by Esgal that few possessed. They would tell him why they were here. Eventually.And, after hours of ignorance and bewilderment on Bilbo's part, they did.LOTRLOTRLOTRThe next morning, Esgal watched the dwarves and Gandalf leave. He waited until they were down the path before entering Bag End. Bilbo was sitting at the empty table, dark shades under his eyes. In his hands was gripped a document. Esgal scanned it quickly, getting the main idea of what it was. His eyes, like Bilbo's rested on the empty space next to "Burgular"."Well?" he said softly, ignoring Bilbo's start of surprise. "What are you going to do?""This is not my fight." the hobbit said softly. "I am not a warrior or soldier. I've never been out of the Shire. Why would Gandalf come to me, and ask me to join in on this mad journey?""The dwarves are trying to regain their home." Esgal said wisely. "Is it madness to attempt to reclaim the great city they lost?""No. Not madness." Bilbo admitted. "Desperation. Determination. Bravery. Foolishness. I do not know which. But why would Gandalf come to me?"Esgal knelt next to his friend, placing a hand on his shoulder. "Because he saw something special in you, Bilbo Baggins. You are an extraordinary hobbit. Despite your claims, you do wish to go on an adventure. You do not want to stay in Bag End for the rest of your life, or be a boring, respectable hobbit. This is your chance, if you wish to take it. The journey will not be easy, but it just might be worth it."The hobbit looked at him with wide eyes before going deep into thought. He picked up the contract, lips moving silently as he read it over again. He paused, placing his head in his hands. Legolas let him think, waiting patiently. Five minutes passed before Bilbo moved. His head rose from his hands and his eyes were bright. Legolas smiled. The hobbit had made his decision."Go on," the elf said, not needing his friend to speak to know what he had chosen. "And if you pass through Mirkwood, I will be there. Go reclaim a kingdom."Bilbo grinned, an almost childish look crossing his face as his excitement shone through. He gathered up a few belongings and ran out of Bag End like a madman. The contract trailed behind him like a banner."I'm going on an adventure!" he shouted, and laughed as he ran.LOTRLOTRLOTRTranslations:Naneth: MotherDelorcion: My created version of "Bastard"Mellon-nin: My friendA/N: This chapter was SO much fun to write! :D There are some lines from The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey in here. I don't own them.Thanks for all of the epic reviews! Have I ever mentioned how much I love you all? :DResponses to Guest reviews:To "DT": Thank you! Legolas will reveal himself to them in a few chapters. I won't say when. ;)To "Issy": Thanks! There is a great significance that things happened differently in reality compared to Elrond's vision... You'll have to read on to see what I mean.To "lyria": Thanks!To "KP": Thank you! I plan on completing this story, don't worry.To "Fishina": Thank you! Yes, he can glow if he wants to.To "Joe": Thanks!To "Fletcher": Thank you! Everyone needs friends. :)IMPORTANT NOTE: It might be a few weeks before I update again. I do not know when I will next have internet access I can update from. Don't worry if I don't update for a few weeks. I will update as soon as I can.Please review!


********** Page 12 **********

A/N: Your eyes are not deceiving you. This is an update! Go library internet! (And sister who whines about not having internet at home...)LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Eleven: The Rage of the ElvenkingThird Age 2941 (70 years ago...)A few months after Bilbo's departure on his adventure, Legolas perched at the top of a shadowed tree, listening to their angry murmurs without the worry or fear many other's would have been plagued with. Despite his best efforts, more and more trees were becoming shadowed. It happened often enough that the assassin could spot the signs when a tree was teetering on the edge of light. The first sign was easy to see, or hear, to be more accurate.When a tree began to finally lose the light within itself, it started calling him "Daelas". Then, its Song would change, morphing into Black Speech. Not long after that, their own form of Black Speech would be the only tongue it could converse in and fully understand. Soon after, the tree would stop speaking of nature and start muttering angrily to itself, hissing if sunlight touched its blackening leaves. Finally, it would grow quiet for several days, emerging from its solitude with a fierce hatred of elves and cursing all things Light.Watching these transformations from joyful to Dark made Legolas weep at times. Sometimes he would be so distraught by the loss of Light that he would walk away to cry in the tree above Ciaran's grave. Even though that tree had also fallen to shadow, it still kept its vow to protect Ciaran's resting place, the oath it had made so deeply ingrained within it that it would never betray Daelas's trust. Depending on how upset Legolas was feeling, he would stay at the oak tree for several hours, before returning to the new shadowed trees and reintroducing himself.The trees' anger and wariness would last five to nine days, but after that period of relentless rage it would welcome him, recognizing Daelas. A hint of its old self would shine through. The trees would rarely remember Esgal, the elf they Sang to when they were still Light. They would only know Daelas, the strange elf that was not too bright, and made them a little calmer and less angry at the world.The shadowed trees did not understand why Daelas wept sometimes when he stroked their dark bark.The forest had been doing so well. Orc and Spider attacks were still down, but the Shadow itself was reaching deeper into the forest. A new presence had revealed itself in Dol Guldur recently, a Dark human calling himself the Necromancer. Though Legolas was not convinced the creature was human. No human would be allowed to run the Hill of Sorcery, not with the Witch-King's lieutenant there. The elf had a feeling the Necromancer was much more than human. He just hoped that the White Council would take Radagast seriously when the Brown Wizard told them of the threat.The trees around Legolas continued to mutter, annoyance and anger focusing on something below. Legolas looked down absently and spoke a soft curse. Below him, tired and hungry-looking were thirteen dwarves and Bilbo Baggins. What were they doing here?Of course, Legolas thought. They must travel through Mirkwood to reach Erebor. It took them longer than necessary to reach here though. I left at the same time but have been here for almost a month. I wonder what delayed them? He watched two dwarves argue, another wander around with a dazed look on his face, and a fourth who looked ready to fall asleep. Why do I have the feeling that they have run into every pack of orcs, wargs, and goblins between here and Bree?Not knowing how close to being right he was, the elf considered revealing himself and offering to be their guide through the dark forest. The group was obviously lost and hungry. Also, they were looking at the surrounding trees with expressions ranging from unease to outright fear. It was obvious that even the dwarves could sense the forest's anger. The only one who did not look unsettled by the woods was Thorin. Legolas scrutinized the King Under the Mountain, taking in his hard look and the set of his jaw. He knew the proud dwarf would accept no help from an elf, even from him.They're going to wander into a Spider's nest at this rate. Or run into a patrol of testy Mirkwood warriors, Legolas predicted with a silent groan. I'm sure that a fish in the river can hear them stomping through the woods— Oh, orc spawn!The elf saw the beginnings of Spider webs in the trees around him. Sure enough, the dwarves were heading towards a Spiders' nest. As in Spiders, plural. Of course they had to stumble upon the biggest Spider colony in Mirkwood! Legolas cursed mentally, already spotting Spiders creeping towards the dwarves and Bilbo in the treetops. It was too late to warn them to turn back.The Spiders in Mirkwood were like any spider one could find in their home... except they were bigger than horses, and a whole lot meaner and smarter. These Spiders were large and furry, either brown or black in color, with sharp pincers and legs longer than a tall Man's. Their bulbous bodies were fat, with a slight point at the end like a stinger. Their eyes were large and black, reflecting what they saw and glittering with both intelligence and malice.A screech ripped through the air and the dwarves and Bilbo flinched, one of the dwarves screaming in terror as the Spiders revealed themselves. Weapons were drawn and the travelers stood in a defensive circle, shuffling bodies skittering around them. Bilbo's sword trembled as he held it, and Esgal could see the whites of his eyes they were so wide.One of the Spiders dropped to the ground, giant pincers snapping as it approached."Hold your ground." Thorin said calmly, not revealing any fear he may have been feeling.The Spider paused, lifting one foreleg and clacking its pincers. Its eight eyes were focused on the travelers, their scared faces reflecting in the black orbs. The other Spiders crept forward, all snapping and clacking while their feet made no noise on the forest floor. One of the dwarves whimpered.They don't stand a chance. There are too many. They're going to be killed, the hidden spectator thought grimly. I cannot let that happen.Up in the trees, Legolas shifted, letting a small bit of shadow move over his frame. A Spider spotted the movement and looked up, as he intended it to. It spotted the glowing violet eyes that watched them from the trees, and recognized them instinctively. Hoshvuras! The Spider gave a warning shriek and the other Spiders froze. As one they bolted, fleeing the area and abandoning their prospective prey. The dwarves watched them go with bewildered expressions on their faces. For a moment, none of them moved, so shocked were they."Let's get out of here before they come back!" the white-haired dwarf— Balin— urged suddenly.Thorin's stunned inaction ended. "Move!"The group ran, Legolas following them in the treetops. He would return and take care of a few of the Spiders after he knew the dwarves and Bilbo were safe. The webs quickly disappeared, the forest brightening slightly, and the assassin recognized where the travelers had fled. More specifically, where they had fled into.You have got to be joking.No sooner had the dwarves stopped to rest did twenty Mirkwood warriors appear out of the foliage, surrounding the dwarves with arrows on all sides. Wait. Only the dwarves were there. Where had Bilbo gone? The assassin looked around for the hobbit, worried he had been left behind. He spotted his friend crouching in the shadows behind a tree, watching the elves with nervous eyes. One elf— the Crown Prince, Aglar, if Legolas was not mistaken— approached Thorin."Thorin Oakenshield. Why have you come to Mirkwood?" the elf said in his smooth voice. His tone was disinterested but diplomatically polite, not quite demanding but not the friendliest either."We are just passing through," Thorin growled defensively, voice taught with rage.Legolas winced. If the Dwarf King had used a calmer, more respectful or diplomatic voice, Aglar would have let him go, or guided him through the forest. But the dwarf's voice had held nothing but scorn, stiffness, and loathing. In other words, he had just insulted and disrespected the elf.The Crown Prince's lip curled. "It is impolite to pass through this realm without informing the Elvenking. Especially for royalty such as yourself." There was no mocking in Aglar's tone, only politeness, but his voice cracked like a whip.You have your father's temper and icy wit, Legolas thought half-sadly, half in exasperation. You can speak as sweetly as as a bird sings yet still carry insults in your tone. Why can't elves and dwarves get along for once?It was obvious neither party liked or trusted the other, even with the elves wearing emotionless masks. Legolas could spot the open mistrust and anger on the dwarves faces, the aloofness and fury in the postures of the elves only a little harder to spot. The ancient feud between elves and dwarves was not one the assassin understood. He knew people could hold grudges, but the ever-growing list of injustices between the two races was becoming ridiculous in his opinion. Had they never heard of the phrases "Let it go" or "The past is the past"? Legolas briefly thought about leaping down and smacking both royals on the backs of their heads to try to knock some sense into them before dismissing the idea and refocusing on the confrontation below."You will come with us to meet the King," Aglar said.It was not a request. Thorin glanced at the pointy arrows aimed at his kin and nodded in angry consent. The elves relieved their prisoners of their weapons and marched them away, arrows pointing at the ground but still strung to their bows. Legolas moved to the tree above Bilbo, looking down at the hobbit and softly calling his name. Predictably, Bilbo jumped a foot in the air, letting loose a startled squeak. He looked up, terror fading, and smiled."Esgal. You're here."The elf offered his hand and the hobbit took it. Legolas pulled him easily up into the tree, setting him on a branch. Bilbo looked slightly nervous but was not afraid like many hobbits would have been. He always liked to climb trees as a child and his friendship with Esgal only made the habit more permanent. He was nowhere near as comfortable on a branch as the elf, but he was not afraid of heights or falling. Bilbo knew the assassin would catch him if he did."How are you Bilbo?" Legolas greeted the hobbit."I'm alright." Bilbo replied. "I've had quite the adventure.""I can tell." the elf said, a little grave. "How is it that your group managed to not only run into a Spiders' nest, but also a patrol of warriors while fleeing said Spiders?"Bilbo winced. "Its this forest. Its so... heavy. Everything is dark and shadowed and it seems like even the trees want to kill us." He shivered.Some of them do, Legolas thought but did not say. "I know. You should not have come here without a guide who knows these woods. Where is Gandalf?""He's off doing something for the White Council," the hobbit said, sounding both worried and miffed.The assassin frowned. "He shouldn't have let you travel through here alone." he said adamantly. "Though we both know Thorin would not accept an elf as a guide."Bilbo sighed. "That is true." He looked in the direction that the elves and their dwarf captives had gone. "I need to rescue them.""It will not be easy," Legolas warned. "The elves of Mirkwood have become more vigilant as the Shadow grows. Would you like my help?"Bilbo studied his friend for a moment, considering. He knew Esgal could get into Mordor and not be seen, which meant he definitely could sneak past a few elves. However, the hobbit had a new trick up his sleeve— or more specifically, in his pocket— that could get him into the palace easily enough on his own. There was no need to let Esgal know about his magic ring."No Esgal," Bilbo said. "I need to free them on my own."Legolas could see the hobbit's determination. He was still seen as useless by the dwarves sometimes, and needed to show he could assist them and was an asset to the group. They needed to see that Bilbo Baggins was not a fidgety, nervous hobbit who had no place on this mission. The dwarves had seen a bit of his bravery and valor when Bilbo faced down Azog to protect Thorin, but the feeling had faded slightly. Bilbo needed to do this himself."Very well." Legolas said. "Good luck, Bilbo." With that, he vanished.LOTRLOTRLOTRThorin Oakenshield stood stiff and proud before the Elvenking. The elf sat in his high-backed wooden throne, a crown of leaves and weaved wood upon his head. His posture showed dignity, power, and grace and his face was an expressionless mask as he looked down at the dwarves.A few of the travelers— like Nori— shifted nervously under his sharp gaze while others— Fili and Kili included— stood with impassive, neutral expressions. Thorin was relieved his rambunctious nephews were keeping their silence. It would not bode well if one of the dwarves accidentally let slip details of their quest to reclaim Erebor.Bilbo was not among the group that had been captured, the Dwaf King noted. He was not sure whether he should be annoyed, hopeful, or irritated by the hobbit's absence. Where had he run off to this time? Could he help them escape? Probably not. While resourceful, Bilbo had no chance of sneaking past these wary elves.The Elvenking spoke, voice musical and holding neither welcome nor condemnation. "Thorin Oakenshield. What business do you have in Mirkwood?""As I told your warrior," the Dwarf King said, nodding to the silver-haired elf that had apprehended his group. "We are merely passing through.""You head to the east." Thranduil stated. "You seek to reclaim Erebor."A few of the dwarves behind Thorin shifted, betraying their unease and shock at the Elvenking's knowing statement. The Dwarf King kept his silence, hiding his own feelings of bewilderment and anger behind a blank face. How had the elf known?"How do you expect to reclaim your kingdom with thirteen dwarves?" Thranduil asked, cool disdain in his voice.Thorin bristled and glared at the elf. "I would not have to reclaim it if you had assisted my people, instead of standing by like a coward!" The dwarf's eyes narrowed as he studied the golden-haired elf standing beside Thranduil. He looked remarkably like his King. "...Or were you too afraid of losing one of your precious sons to help us?"Thorin did not notice the flash of grief that passed through the Elvenking's blue eyes, or how the other elves in the room froze, faces tightening with pain. Thranduil's expression did not change, but his eyes burned like blue fire, all of his anger showing through his eyes. A few of Thorin's kin flinched and wilted under the fury in that gaze. Thranduil rose and Thorin swore the pressure in the air changed, a feeling of weight and power settling over them. The Elvenking spoke in a voice that was harsh and dark, and if his tone alone could kill, Thorin would be dead ten times over."I was willing to let you continue with your suicidal quest, Oakenshield." He was not shouting, but a part of Thorin wished he were. The soft, seething tone in which he spoke sent shivers up the dwarf's spine, and he felt as if the Valar themselves were going to strike him down. "But you have just insulted me in the worst way possible." Thranduil looked to the silver-haired warrior. "Take them to the prison cells."The elves— faces colder than ice— did as their King commanded, escorting the dwarves down into the caverns that held their dungeons. They walked quickly, making the dwarves almost have to run, and did not look at them the entire way to the cells. Each cell was a fifteen by fifteen foot room made of stone with a metal bar door. There were three cots inside stacked along the walls but that was it. Seeing as they were deep underground in the dungeons of the palace, there were no windows. The only light came from the torches in the hall. All in all, the dwarves had seen better and worse prison cells. Thorin's only thought was that it was ironic that the elves would imprison people in stone and away from the sky they so loved.Do they keep their own kind imprisoned down here, or only outsiders? He wondered.The silver-haired elf stopped in front of the cells, opening three bar doors. He stepped back and glared at the dwarves. "Get in." When the dwarves did not move, he laid a hand on his sword-hilt. "Now."Without protest, the dwarves quickly filed into the cells. The elf slammed the doors shut behind them, locking them before handing the keys to another elf. Before he could leave, Thorin spoke."So this is the hospitality of the elves." the Dwarf King said scathingly. "They imprison travelers for calling their King a coward."The silver-haired elf's expression betrayed none of his feelings. "If you had taken the time to learn the history of your neighbors, you would never have dared to speak of the King losing his sons. His youngest was killed by orcs. You hinted that he could do to lose a few more."Thorin's glare did not cease. "So we are being imprisoned because and Elf Prince warrior died in battle." he said flatly and with a hint of contempt.Quick as a blink the Dwarf King was off the ground, lifted by his shirtfront. The elf was almost nose-to-nose with him, eyes alight with the same rage as the Elvenking. "My brother was five years old when he was taken by orcs and tortured to death to spite my father!" the Prince spat. "He was no warrior. He was a young child. An innocent, joyful elfling..." Abruptly, the angry older brother dropped the stunned dwarf and turned away, speaking thickly. "Guard them."He strode away without looking back, posture stiff and strong, but Thorin had a feeling the Prince was sobbing. Guilt and anger warred within the dwarf as he sat on the simple cot that served as a bed in the cell. His cellmates— Fili and Kili— looked at him with a mixture of horror and sadness."Uncle Thorin?" Kili whispered. "Is it true?"Thorin closed his eyes, distantly remembering lessons in a stuffy little room filled with books. He recalled the smell of parchment, dust and paper, and how his father solemnly told him a basic history of the elves of Mirkwood. He remembered one tale now. The story of the Lost Prince, the son of Thranduil that had been tortured and killed by orcs at the young age of five.A part of Thorin's accusation had been true. Thranduil had been afraid to risk the lives of his sons. They must have been with the army that marched to Erebor after Thrór slighted the elves. The realization that callousness may not have been the reason for Thranduil's unwillingness to help hit Thorin hard. If he had not let his anger and age-old prejudices take control of his words, he and his kin would be on their way to Erebor. Instead, they were in a cell after Thorin had practically told the Elvenking he did not care if the elf lost a few more sons.There was so much hatred and blame between elves and dwarves, and the Dwarf King suddenly found himself reeling from the intensity of it. Repetitive insults, mistrust, and hatred, passed down through the generations, kept the blood feud going. Dwarves and elves were both so stubborn, both so unwilling to reach out and ask for friendship with the other race. There was too much influence from the older members of both races for anything more than a stiff alliance to work.Thorin leaned back, staring at the rock ceiling and feeling further from home than he ever had. Here he was, in an elven prison, trying to understand those who had captured him and his kin. He should be absolutely angry and indignant, claiming he and his kin were blameless... but he could not. After hearing the Prince's words and remembering lessons from so long ago, he just could not. After all, no matter what race you came from, the death of a child could not be scoffed at and scorned, and neither could the grief of a parent.LOTRLOTRLOTRFighting Spiders was both exhilarating and unnerving to Legolas. Unlike other "animal" servants of the Shadow, Spiders were both intelligent and beastly. Their intelligence proved to be their downfall, however, because intelligent creatures could recognize who and what they were fighting. He was Hoshvuras, the Silent Slayer, and many Spiders would meet their deaths by his hand this night. The Spiders knew that, and were afraid.In the Spiders' nest, beneath the dark trees of Mirkwood, the assassin dodged a spray of sticky web and the gnashing pincers of one of the giant Spiders, slashing sideways with his knives to cut one in half. The sharp blades cut through the tough Spider's exoskeleton like a knife through hot butter. Legolas leapt upward, letting the Spider charging at him go under him, landing on its back and jabbing downward. He rolled off that enemy, blades flicking up to plunge into the head of Shelob's kin. The assassin's eyes raked the mass of moving shadows, calm despite the number of Spiders around him. If Legolas were alone, even he would not have dared to attack such a large colony of Spiders. But he was not alone. The shadowed trees fought with him.The trees shook their limbs and stabbed at the Spiders in and beneath their boughs, letting out all of their anger at the giant arachnids. They fought even more savagely than the descendants of Shelob, literally ripping their enemies apart if they could. Their reason for fighting was simple. Spiders were the enemies of Daelas. No one would hurt their Daelas! Besides, the shadowed trees were tired of having the sticky-uncomfortable webs wrapped through them, making it hard for them to move their limbs.Knees bent, one leg out, Legoals twisted in a circle, knocking a Spider's legs out from under it and slicing off its head with his knives once it was down. He spun, arms straight, knives out, and slashed through the Spiders that tried to surround him. Still turning, he twisted out of the way of a dropping Spider, his blades stabbing into it as it hit the ground. He leapt, jumping from Spider to Spider as easily as he jumped through trees, blades hitting their target whenever he landed.The assassin's piercing violet eyes finally spotted what he had been searching for. A particularly large Spider with green dots around her eyes and on her back was standing back from the battle, hissing and clicking loudly. That would be the Queen, the leader of this colony. She was the one that kept the Spiders united, and prevented them from killing each other. Once she was dead, however...Legolas leapt backwards and up, landing in the tree above him. He stabbed the Spider trying to sneak up behind him, letting its corpse fall to the ground. Then he drew his bow, fitting two arrows into the string. Sighting, he released. The arrows whipped through the air, straight for the Queen. She shrieked and dodged the first arrow, and ran into the path of the second. The arrow plunged through one of her bulbous eyes, straight into her brain. The Queen collapsed and the Spiders froze, uncertain. Their leader was dead and there were no more orders. They did not know what to do.The assassin bared his teeth in a smile. Now, my friends.The trees lashed out, swaying as they slashed, stabbed, and crushed the Spiders beneath them. The Spiders shrieked and tried to flee but there was nowhere to go and not find angry, vengeful trees. The elf shot a few that were slipping between the trees' attack. A couple Spiders escaped the massacre, but only a small part of the large colony. They would remain on their own or be killed by their kin. Spiders did not tolerate Spiders from different colonies. That made the remainder of the colony a lot less dangerous than they had been.Legolas leapt down from his perch, wrinkling his nose in disgust as he surveyed the remains of his enemies. "Thank you." he told the trees.The trees were gleeful. Nasty Spiders are gone. They won't make icky-stuck webs in our limbs anymore.The elf nodded silently in response, deep in thought. He knew that the shadowed trees could have evicted the Spiders years ago, without his help. The only problem was, they did not acknowledge their need to until he brought it up. That was the way of the trees. They would wait patiently, not acting until asked. But once Daelas did ask them for help, they would attack with all the loathing they felt towards the Shadow, not truly knowing about their anger until then. This ignorance of their own feelings worried Legolas at times, and he knew the Shadow was what was keeping the shadowed trees from attacking the servants of Sauron on their own.Legolas sensed the presence coming and smiled, turning to the left and waving cheerfully. "Radagast!"The Brown Wizard crept into the clearing, watching the now-still trees with wary eyes. "Hello, Esgal. I see that you've been busy." He nudged a dead Spider with his staff, scowling. "This colony kept taking elves and my animal friends. I'm glad you were able to take care of it.""It is much easier to kill Spiders when angry trees are one's allies," the elf responded cheerfully.The trees rustled in response. Radagast had a feeling they were watching him. It felt like a thousand eyes were boring into his back. He glanced around, grimacing at the dark, shadowy woods. His staff was gripped in both hands. The Wizard tried to touch one of the trees, only to have it brandish its branches threateningly. He backed off, standing beside Legolas."I'm glad you told the shadowed trees not to attack me," the Istar said grimly. "Although they do not seem to like me.""It didn't try to stab or cut you," the elf said seriously. "That means it is fine with your presence. If you don't antagonize them, the trees won't attack you."Radagast sighed. "If it weren't for you, I would not dare to come into this part of the forest. The elves can't even come close. You may have taught the trees restraint but their hostility is enough to make the hardiest warrior flinch. How can you handle it so well?"The assassin shrugged. "I'm used to it. The darkness of the trees is nothing compared to the darkness where I grew up. It's helpful." He grinned, eyes glinting. "Enemies like the Spiders never expect an elf to come over here."Radagast looked around at the carnage around him and glanced at his friend. "You scare me at times," he admitted. "Just a little.""Sorry." Legolas said.The Wizard smiled easily. "Its perfectly all right. You're a Wood Elf. You're one of the wild ones."Legolas knew that was the truth. No matter what happened, or what the Shadow did, the elf would always be a free, wild spirit. Society would not bind him, and walls would never hold him. He was unique in ways only he could be, and in ways that had nothing to do with his eyes or suppressed glow. He did not have a set home and traveled often. He preferred to stay outside and leapt through trees instead of riding horses. He hunted to feed himself rather than go to shops.He spent hours looking at the stars, but was quick to switch his attention and hunt orcs or Spiders. He attacked with the deadly grace of a predator, without mercy for his enemies. He could go from laughing to emotionless in a second, letting certain words wound him while completely ignoring others. He was not content in cities like the Noldor, or prone to sing like the Silvan. He could not stay in one place for long, and loved the thought of the new adventures tomorrow would bring. That was just how, and who, he was. And he had accepted that long ago.And so, in response to Radagast's words, the elf's lips twitched. "That I am." he agreed. "That I am."LOTRLOTRLOTR A/N: I tried to show the elves' and the dwarves' reasons for their actions in this chapter. I hope I did a good job. If you want to see how the dwarves escape the elves, read The Hobbit or wait for the next movie. :)Thanks for all of the awesome reviews! :D Sorry if I didn't respond. The site wouldn't let me respond to some of the reviews for some reason. I pretty much had the choice of fighting with the PM messenger or updating the chapter since I'm short on time. So, a sincere thank you to everyone who reviewed last chapter!Responses to Guest reviews:To "lyria": Thank you! I hope you keep loving it. :)To "FalenoftheForest": Thanks for reviewing!To "Fishina": Thanks for reviewing! You saw this chapter. :DPlease review!Again, I don't know when I'll be able to update next. Hopefully it will be sooner than I think.


********** Page 13 **********

A/N: Again, go library internet! I just realized I did not put "AU" in the summary. But I did mention it in the summary in the prologue. I also realized I miswrote the "Time-Line" part in the Prologue. It should have said "leading up to an AU LOTR," not "a canon LOTR". I changed it. Sorry for the mistake.Just so you know, this story will eventually become severely AU. Like, severely AU. All That Remains is split into two "parts" which will both be in one story on this site. "Part One: The Hidden Guardian" is what you're reading right now. Part Two (which I will not yet reveal the name of) will be the severely Alternate Universe part. Anyway, this is where the AU starts showing a little. Enjoy the chapter.LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Twelve: The Battle of the Five ArmiesThird Age 2941 (70 years ago...)Legolas could not believe it. Out of all things, elves, men, and dwarves were going to war over gems, gold, and precious stones. When he had heard of the dragon Smaug's death, the assassin had been happy for the dwarves that had succeeded in reclaiming their home. He had thought their troubles were over, and that their quest had been completed without any more misadventures and problems. Then he had heard that the Men of Laketown and the Elves of Mirkwood wanted a piece of Erebor's great treasure, and Thorin was unwilling to part with any of it. So now the elves and men were laying siege on Erebor, where the dwarves' army had massed to defend their hoard.The assassin really wanted to knock more than a few heads together. Stupid stubborn idiotic people! He found that he could not side with anyone or leave anyone blameless. Thorin was being stubborn, greedy, and pigheaded, refusing to even consider giving gold to anyone. Yes, he had just reclaimed it but much of it belonged to others, having been hoarded by his grandfather and Smaug.The men of Laketown deserved credit and compensation for killing the dragon after it destroyed most of their town— Legolas had a feeling Bilbo antagonized it. He should have a talk with the hobbit later about not mocking dragons.— but they should be relying on diplomacy to get what they want. And that was coming from an assassin whose gentlest and most tactful diplomatic techniques consisted of knocking people unconscious. Finally, Thranduil sought compensation for Thrór's slights to him and his people.Still, to go to war for gold... the elf found he just could not understand it. Did gold matter so much that people were willing to die for it? Was there not enough bloodshed and deaths from Smaug's attacks? Apparently not, because these people were willing to kill and die for metals and jewels. At these thoughts, Legolas, who grew up surrounded by battles and bitter strife, found himself angry at all parties in the siege that would soon become war. How could they fight and bicker over something so stupid? But he could do nothing.The assassin was currently hiding near the elf and men encampment. The two races had joined to make their war against the dwarves. Legolas shook his head, scowling darkly with his eyes glittering. He did not like the situation. Not at all. A presence caught his attention and he smiled. He spotted Bilbo near the edge of the encampment, sneaking towards it with a nervous look on his face. His hands were clasped to his coat, as if he were holding something there.Legolas crept up behind him, whispering in his ear. "Bilbo."The hobbit jumped a foot in the air but did not shriek. He spun, wide-eyed. "Esgal." he hissed. "Please, stop doing that!""Sorry." the assassin said. "Why are you sneaking about?"The hobbit reached in his coat, revealing a large shimmering gem. The Arkenstone. "I'm taking it to the Elvenking. Maybe it will be enough to stop the elves and men from fighting the dwarves, or he can use it to make Thorin give some of the gold up.""Why aren't you siding with Thorin?" Legolas asked curiously."Thorin's almost mad with greed," Bilbo said miserably. "He wants to keep all the gold and jewels. But Esgal, there's so much of it. Much more than he needs. I tried to explain that to him but he cast me out and declared me a traitor. It is almost like he is a different person.""I will never understand how jewels and gold can be so valuable," the assassin said slowly. "But wealth like that can change people, and rarely for the better. Hopefully Thorin realizes that all of the gold in Middle-earth is not worth the lives of him and his kin.""Hopefully." Bilbo echoed him, voice lacking the hope he had just spoken of.Seeing his friend's discomfort, Legolas changed the subject. "How did you find the Arkenstone?""I stumbled upon it when I snuck into Smaug's lair," Bilbo said, glancing down at the glowing Heart of the Mountain.The assassin raised his eyebrows. "You wouldn't have happened to insult or mock Smaug while you were there?"The hobbit winced, looking guilty. "I... may have claimed we had a way to destroy him. Which we did.""After Laketown was burned to the ground," Legolas's voice was not accusing, only gently scolding the hobbit. "While things turned out right in the end and Smaug was killed, your words caused great damage, Bilbo.""I know." the hobbit said heavily. "That's why I'm going to give part of my share of the gold to Laketown. If I ever get my payment, that is.""Hmm." the elf hummed vaguely. His violet eyes narrowed. "How did you get into Smaug's lair without alerting Smaug to your presence?" Or getting burned to a crisp, he thought but did not say.Bilbo tensed, laughing nervously. "I've become quite the burglar. Sneaking around without being seen has become a special gift of mine." His hand dipped into his pocket subconsciously.Legolas could tell his friend was hiding something but did not push him. It would be unfair if he demanded to know all of the hobbit's secrets when he kept so many of his own. "I'll leave you to your mission." he said. "Good luck, Bilbo. I'm going to be around the camp, so if you need help, just call. I'm curious to meet the man who slayed Smaug."Bilbo smiled, earlier unease forgotten. "Thank you, Esgal. I will."The elf vanished into the night, and the hobbit continued on his way. He no longer trekked nervously towards the encampment. He was no longer afraid of attack. His assassin friend had his back now, and Bilbo knew he would not come to harm when Esgal was watching.LOTRLOTRLOTRBard the Bowman was sure he was dying. His throat was drier than the desert and his head pounded as if a blacksmith were hammering it. His skin felt hot and sticky and his vision blurred, nausea overcoming him every few steps. He ached from the center of his bones, and if he did not know better he would say that he was ill. This was more terrible and draining than any illness he had ever experienced or heard of.Ever since he had slain Smaug, Bard had been feeling steadily worse. At first, small tremors and sudden chills had been all he had experienced. Then, suddenly, he was blacking out and his body hurt more than an old man's. At first the healers had thought it was shock. Then, they began murmuring about a dark curse cast by the dragon. But Bard knew better.He had been warned not to use the Black Arrow. The nervous, jumpy merchant that had given it to him— he had been almost desperate to be rid of it— had told him to not use it unless he needed to kill something that could not be killed. His statement had made no sense until Smaug had attacked Laketown. Then, the Arrow's use had been obvious.Bard had shot the dragon— a thing that could not be killed by normal weapons— with the Black Arrow. Now he knew why he the merchant had been so adamant. The curse upon him was not from Smaug. It was from the Arrow. Bard had felt it. As he had drawn back and released the Black Arrow, he had felt Its anger, as clear as a sentence in his mind.You are not meant to wield me, it had hissed.But he had anyway. He had released the Arrow, and it snarled in rage even as it struck Smaug's heart. And instead of feeling proud and joyful as his people cheered around him, Bard felt hollow and afraid. He became slowly, terribly ill soon after. It was not an illness of coughing and the rejection of sustenance, but a slow weakening and deterioration of his very soul. The closest thing he could compare it to was an elf fading from grief.Yet here he was, participating in a bloodless siege on Erebor, waiting until war over gold began. Normally, he would be quite adamant about receiving his share of the gold as a reward for killing Smaug, but his illness was a more pressing burden on his mind. It did not stop him from demanding a twelfth of Erebor's treasure, but the need to receive said treasure was steadily decreasing.Bard walked slowly through the encampment of elves and men, eyes closing every few seconds as if he were about to fall asleep on his feet. Most likely, if the Bowman did give in to the tempting darkness of unconsciousness he would collapse in the street. And that would not do well for the men's morale or his own personal image. So Bard struggled on, trying to think of a reason why the Master of Laketown wanted him to come to his tent. Something must have come up, but he could not think of what."Are you all right?" a musical voice asked him.Bard blinked slowly and suddenly a cloaked figure was in front of him. The Bowman was too tired to flinch. He stared at the figure dazedly for a moment, taking him in. He was dressed like a Ranger, with a brownish-green cloak, and carried his weapons openly. Bard took in the bow and knives, and even in his almost-delusional state the man knew they were elvish. The figure was most likely an elf, then, because few men would be able to get their hands on Elvish weapons. Either that or the Bowman was hallucinating and no one was standing in front of him, because not a single passerby was giving them a second glance."Are you all right?" the elf repeated worriedly, and Bard realized he had been quiet for too long.The man forced his dry lips to move, and hated how his voice rasped. "I'm fine.""You do not sound or look fine." the elf said flatly. "What ails you? Perhaps I can help."Bard slowly processed this. He had not thought to ask the elves for help with the curse. Then again, had they ever encountered a weapon like the Black Arrow before? Would they even be able to help him? It was worth a try, he supposed. He could not feel much worse off. Then again... a feeling of utter hopelessness took him, and a terrible despair rose in his heart, so great he almost choked. The image of the Black Arrow burned in his mind, and he swore that it was still hissing at him."I don't think I can be helped, Master Elf." he said softly.The elf was silent for a moment before he spoke. "That depends, Master Human. My name is Esgal, by the way.""I am Bard... the Bowman." the man introduced slowly. His vision swam and he closed his eyes, nausea and chills washing over him.The elf's eyes— what odd violet eyes— brightened with recognition. "You are the Man that slayed Smaug?" he asked.Bard nodded wearily. "Yes. I..."He swayed and Esgal caught him, gripping his shoulder."I'm taking you to the healers," the elf said quickly, guiding him through the crowd."They can't help me," Bard rasped, black spots dancing in front of his eyes. "No one can."He could barely keep his own feet, chills and flashes of heat rushing through his body. His head felt like it was being split open. A shudder shook Bard's frame and he squeezed his eyes shut, an anguished tear made its way down his cheek. Without fully comprehending that he was speaking, the Bowman began to mumble to himself, ignoring Esgal as the other took him towards the healing tent."I should not have used it... He warned me not to unless the situation was dire... The dragon's attack was dire... but this is not worth it... I shouldn't have used it...""Used what?" Esgal asked softly.He glanced around, as if trying to find something. Unknown to the Bowman the elf was trying to figure out where the healer's tent was. It did not help that the people around them assumed Bard was drunk and as such were only walking by without the intention of helping the man.The man blinked rapidly at Esgal, face covered in a sheen of sweat. "The Black Arrow. I shouldn't have used it. It told me I wasn't meant to wield it. And now it is punishing me..."Esgal only stared at him in concern, watching with horror as shadows seemed to cover the man, as if they were suffocating him. His skin gained an even unhealthier tinge, and his hands trembled. Bard continued to mumble to himself, seeming to not notice the elf."But I had to use it...We had nothing else that could kill a dragon... I just used it to protect the town..."The elf did not know what to do. He could literally see the man in front of him fading, his light extinguishing against the darkness that crept into his soul. How could none of the other elves notice? Why were they not helping him? The hidden assassin bit his lip, struggling to think of some way to help the man in front of him. He noticed that Bard was looking directly at him, eyes both glazed and lucid, and realized the man wanted him to respond."I am glad that you were able to save your people." Esgal said at last, in a soft voice. "The Black Arrow served you well. Smaug is dead and many of your people survived. Despite the consequences, it is good that you used the Black Arrow."And suddenly, shockingly, Bard felt better. The nausea vanished, as did the aching and exhaustion. The chills and fever disappeared and a lightness seemed to wash over him. The labored pounding of the man's heart became a calm, healthy beat, and the pressure crushing his skull ceased. The Bowman could feel his strength returning, and the aching in his joints was gone like it had never existed. The man shrugged out of the elf's supportive hold, standing on his own two feet without feeling like the earth was buckling beneath him. A mildly confused light appeared in Esgal's eyes as the color rapidly returned to the man's cheeks. Bard smiled, and his face was bright, as if a great burden had been lifted from his shoulders."Thank you." the Bowman said reverently, not fully understanding what had happened but instinctively realizing the elf had something to do with it.Esgal blinked. "For what?""I—" Before Bard could respond a sprinting messenger ran into him, making the man stagger. When the Bowman looked up Esgal had vanished. "Where did he...?""Sorry, sir." the human messenger apologized, eyes wild. "I was not watching where I was going.""It is all right," Bard said calmly. "I'm fine. What news do you bring that is so urgent that you race through camp like a horde of orcs is on your tail?"The messenger winced. "I have an important message to give to the Master of Laketown and the Elvenking. An army of orcs and wargs are headed this way. I have already informed the dwarves and they are willing to ally with us to help defeat our common enemy, and keep them from gaining the gold inside Erebor."Bard stared at the man mutely before grimacing. "So that is how it is going to play out. It looks like we're going to have to fight after all."LOTRLOTRLOTRLegolas had been in many battles, but he had never participated in one of such size. The five armies— three of Good, two of Evil— clashed near the Lonely Mountain. Battle cries in Khuzdûl, Sindarin, Westron, and Black Speech rang through the air, and the shouts and screams of the dying pounded on the elf's ears. Everything was a mix of organized chaos, the armies jumbled together in a deadly yet purposeful melee.The elves, men, and dwarves were far outnumbered but fought on against wave after wave of orcs and wargs. Side by side the Free People fought, adapting to and helping each other. It was amazing. Just a few hours before, they had been ready to fight each other until no one was left standing.Now, their orders were simple: survive, and kill as many orcs and wargs as possible. The Enemy had similar intentions, though their only goal was to slaughter all of the dwarves, elves, and men they encountered. Even with three armies on their side, the enemies vastly outnumbered the Free People. That did not stop the smaller side from fighting, however.Legolas left a trail of dead enemies in his wake, using all his skills to kill as many orcs and wargs as he could as quickly as possible. While the warriors around him blocked and exchanged blows, he killed, killed, killed. Legolas stabbed an orc on his left, and beheaded another, diving beneath an orc's blade, to leap up and stab the creature through the head.A quick forward thrust with his left blade ended a warg, and a kick to an orc's kneecap sent him crashing to the ground. Legolas jabbed his knives down, pulling them free. He turned, leaned, and let a blade pass, striking the orc's shield hard and making the creature's arm go numb. Legolas grabbed the shield, slamming it up into the orc's head. The orc fell in a heap, skull caved in.A warg sneaking up behind him lunged and he turned, forced to block as the warg's jaws snapped at him. The elf kicked the warg in the muzzle, making it howl in pain. He lunged, and stabbed it once in the jaw, up into its brain. He rolled out of the path of another warg, drawing his bow, aiming, releasing. The arrow hit the back of the warg's knee and it went down, its riding flying over its head and hitting the ground. The elf dashed over to the warg, ending its existence with a single stab.Legolas scanned the battlefield, caught in a small lull. He spotted a golden-haired elf locking blades with an orc nearby, and tensed as the other did not notice the warg sneaking up on him. Knives were sheathed, and his bow drawn in a second. The warg jumped at the unsuspecting elf. The assassin fired, and his arrow his the warg's side, startling it enough that it missed the elf. The warg snarled, struggling to its feet. The golden-haired elf flinched and turned, finding himself inches from sharp teeth. The warg growled, jaws opening. Its body jerked and it slumped to the ground, revealing an arrow in the base of its skull.The other elf looked up, and blue eyes met hidden violet. The sounds of the battle seemed to fade, and all Legolas could see was the other elf's face. Deep within himself, the assassin felt... something. For a moment he could not place it, but then he realized what that feeling was. It was recognition. He knew the other elf.Memories struggled to reach the surface of his mind but remained hidden, trapped and unable to be recalled. Still, Legolas felt a connection with the other elf. He knew him, somehow. He was important. The other elf— the elf with familiar golden hair and blue eyes— was... was...Legolas could not remember.Mere feet away, Thranduil felt the same unexplainable feeling that his hidden son did. He was confused, struggling to recognize the one who had saved him. His presence did not feel familiar— not at all— so why did he feel a connection to this man?The other was cloaked and hooded with the Elvenking unable to even see his eyes, but he had to be a man, right? He was too tall to be a dwarf and did not glow like an elf. The Elvenking did not recognize him as one of his warriors anyway. So why did Thranduil feel like he should know him?After what seemed like an eternity, but was only a miniscule moment of time, the sounds of battle returned to the two elves' ears. Thranduil blinked and focused, too much of a warrior to ignore the fight any longer. He nodded at the man that had saved him and returned to the battle, pushing all thoughts of the strange connection he had felt with the other out of his mind. There was no time to ponder what he felt, not now in the middle of war. Thranduil vanished in the chaos.Legolas felt a sharp pang of loss as the other elf left, an unexplainable feeling of grief, sadness, and hurt rising within him. He pushed the feeling away before he too focused on the battle once more. He slashed a warg down its side, cutting it open, then stabbed an orc in the gut. He spun, blades sweeping in an arc and slicing three other enemies, then ran forward and leapt, landing on the back of a warg behind its rider. He stabbed the orc before severing the warg's spine, jumping clear as the creature screamed and collapsed to the ground.Like a serpent striking his blades flicked out, sinking into another. His daggers caught in the orc's chain mail, the metal twisting around his blades, making them stick. An orc, sighting his trapped weapons, charged at him. Legolas released his knives and rose to meet the creature. He dodged the swipe, jabbing a pressure point in the orc's arm to make it release its sword. Before the sword hit the ground, the elf grabbed the orc's head and turned it sharply to the side with all his strength.Crack!With a harsh snapping sound, the orc's neck broke. The assassin let the body fall to the ground, retrieving his knives. Once again he scanned the battle, searching for allies that needed assistance. He recognized Thorin fighting close by, with his nephews not far away from their uncle. They were surrounded by orcs but doing well, keeping the enemies back and hacking through them with the skill of great warriors. But none of them saw what the elf could see.An orc archer was standing not far from the three dwarves, a circle of his kin around him. An arrow was drawn back in his bow, which was pointed directly at Thorin."Look out!" Legolas shouted, running at the dwarves.Thorin turned, eyes widening as the arrow sped towards him. The assassin hit his side, knocking him down and out of the arrow's path. Instantly the elf was on his feet, shooting the archer that had tried to take the King's life. The elf turned and Thorin found himself looking into piercing violet eyes."Are you unharmed?" Legolas asked in his musical voice.Internally, Thorin reeled in shock. Until the other had spoken he had thought his savior had been a man. But that was not the case. He had been saved by an elf! He could not believe it. "Yes." the dwarf said shortly, showing none of his stunned thoughts on his face. He scowled at the next wave of incoming enemies as another band of orcs and wargs charged towards them."Kill the Dwarf King!" one orc screeched, sword held aloft. "Kill the Line of Durin, and you will be rewarded!"The orcs and wargs responded with bellows and roars of their own, surrounding the four. Instinctively, the three dwarves and one elf made a square, watching each others' backs as the orcs and wargs closed in. Legolas quickly adjusted his fighting style, careful to block and redirect blows instead of dodging them. His had allies behind him now, and could not let the enemy's attacks swing by him.The dwarves and elf stabbed at enemies that came close, a shield of deadly blades protecting them from and felling their foes. It was like they had fought together all of their lives, each noting and making sure to complement each others' fighting styles, covering their mistakes and working together like one mind. When Thorin slayed the closest orc, Legolas killed the next closest one. When Kili drew his bow and shot arrows into the masses, Thorin and Fili kept their enemies away from him. When Fili misjudged a swing and stumbled, Kili and Legolas kept the orcs and wargs back while he recovered.Piles of corpses surrounded the four warriors, and by their blades many of their enemies fell. But their allies were also dying, and Legolas could not help but scream in rage internally as he saw a man lose his head, an elf fall to a spear, and a dwarf get mauled by a warg. The orcs and wargs kept coming, not tiring, confident in the strength of their numbers and that they would eventually win and decimate the smaller forces that stood against them.Kili said what the elf was thinking. "There's still so many..."Thorin gritted his teeth, speaking harshly but encouragingly to his nephews. "Keep fighting! For Erebor!"The surrounding elves, men, and dwarves took up the cry, adding their own."For Erebor!""For Laketown!""For Dale!""For Mirkwood!""For Middle-earth!"Once more the three armies rallied, attacking the ocean of orcs and wargs with all of the determination and valor of their races. If they were going to die, they would go out fighting, and take down as many of the enemy as they could before they passed on.At that moment loud, earth-shaking roar ripped through the air, making the defenders flinch and cringe. It was a horrible, fear-inspiring sound, and both allies and enemies found themselves trembling beneath its might. Expecting a new, terrible attack made by the enemy, the elves, men and dwarves turned towards the noise. To their surprise and awe, a giant bear was wading through the orcs and wargs, roaring as he decimated their ranks. Before a cheer could rise from the Free People, a new shout sounded through the air, carrying easily over the bear's roars."The Eagles! The Eagles are coming!"And the Eagles appeared, swooping down on the orcs and wargs. Legolas looked at Thorin and saw the dwarf looking at him with a relieved smile on his face. And although the King Under the Mountain could not see it, Legolas smiled back. The Eagles and bear had turned the tide. The orcs and wargs no longer held the advantage. It was practically over. They had done it.The Battle of the Five Armies was won.LOTRLOTRLOTREven after years of being unoccupied except for a dragon, Erebor was still magnificent and beautiful. Now that the threats of Smaug, siege, and battle were gone, Bilbo took the time to marvel at the craftsmanship of the dwarves. He was in the throne room of the city, standing before a dwarf who mere days ago cast him out and called him traitor.Thorin sat upon the throne of his forebears, back straight and head held high. He no longer wore the garb of a warrior, but the elegant robes and cloak of the King Under the Mountain. Kili and Fili stood at the sides of his throne, cleaned up and more well-dressed than Bilbo had ever seen them. Bilbo's eyes met the youngest dwarf's for a moment and Kili grinned, winking cheerily at him.Thorin's coronation and the brothers' formal acceptance of the titles "Crown Prince" and "Prince" had been a couple days before, and the future of Erebor was looking up. The orc and warg threat, along with the battle that followed, had knocked sense into Thorin, and he began peaceful talks with those he had slighted. The Dwarf King gave Thranduil, Bard, and the men of Laketown the gold they had asked for, and justly deserved.Treaties, agreements, and alliances had been forged between the three races, the hope for a prosperous future and a united stand against the Shadow bringing them together for the first time in thousands of years. Bilbo did not know what had caused Thorin to let go of his anger and hatred of elves, but a good change had come over the King. Now, Bilbo stood before the King and his nephews, the other dwarves that had participated in the quest standing beside him."Bilbo Baggins." Thorin said. "Again and again I judged you harshly, and thought you were not worthy of being a part of the quest. But again and again you proved how wrong I was." Thorin rose, walking forward to stand in front of the hobbit. He placed a hand on Bilbo's shoulder. "I apologize for my treatment of you, and wish to inform you that I am proud to have fought at your side. I hope that my lapse in sanity can be forgiven, and that we can be friends once more.""Our friendship was never severed." Bilbo said with a smile.Thorin returned the grin, eyes bright with joy few had ever seen. "Even with the Shadow still growing and darkening this land, the future is looking bright." His expression changed, and Bilbo swore he saw a hint of mischief in the serious King's eyes. "Now that that is over with, there is someone I would like you all to meet.""Hello Bilbo!" a familiar voice said in the hobbit's ear."GAH!" Bilbo shrieked, and all of the dwarves except Thorin, Fili, and Kili jumped. "Will you stop that!""No." Esgal said simply.In response to the glare he got, the assassin grinned. His hood was down, revealing his facial features, light blonde hair, and pointed ears."What is an elf doing here?!" Gloin demanded, hand drifting towards his weapon."Esgal saved my life in the Battle of the Five Armies. He pushed me out of the way of an arrow and fought at my nephews' and my sides for its remainder of the battle. He is a friend," Thorin said firmly. His sharp gaze landed on Bilbo and his lips twitched. "I assume you already know Esgal.""Yes." Bilbo said shortly. "He takes pleasure in taking years off of my lifespan by giving me heart attacks.""I can see why!" Gloin grumbled. "Make some noise would you, Elf?"Esgal shrugged. "Asking me to make noise while moving is like asking a dwarf to sleep in a tree. It is most likely not going to happen."A few of the dwarves tried to picture one of their kind in a tree and snorted, chuckling at the ridiculous image. A dwarf in a tree? Like that would ever happen!Bilbo looked at the elf, surprised by the calmness in which he spoke to the dwarves. He knew Esgal had trouble trusting others, and the fact that he had revealed himself to so many people stunned the hobbit. But other than the small hint of tension in his shoulders, the assassin did not look nervous or wary in the slightest. Bilbo's eyes drifted back to Thorin, and his shock only grew as the King Under the Mountain laughed with the others. And though he stood close to the elf, the dwarf's stance held no animosity or anger.It was then that realization clicked in Bilbo's mind, and he understood Esgal's reasoning. Esgal was the reason Thorin was willing to trust and make the alliance with the elves. However, many of the other dwarves— most in positions of power or influence in Erebor— still carried mistrust and prejudice. Esgal was revealing himself now to show the dwarves that elves were people too, and could be friendly, strong allies. It was one thing to see an elf while negotiating a treaty or fighting in a battle, but another to see them laughing, smiling, and at ease with old friends. Exposure to Esgal had knocked Bilbo's childish, god-like vision of elves out of his head, and would hopefully help these dwarves see that they were not stuffy, distant, cold immortals that cared only for their own race.Bilbo felt a swell of pride for his friend, knowing how hard it must be to show himself like this. The elf was hiding it well but the hobbit, a good friend of his, could see his nervousness. You really are a good person, Esgal. You think you are only good at killing, but you do so much more than that. You care enough about strengthening relations between Elves and Dwarves to show yourself and try to make them understand the other race a little better. Ha. The elves have no idea how much you do for them, and you don't either.Thorin sobered, looking solemnly at the elf. "Once again, I thank you for saving my life.""Anyone would have," the elf said seriously."Perhaps." Thorin said. "But it was because you fought directly aside dwarves that I believed an alliance between our races was possible." He offered his arm and Esgal clasped it. "You have my sincere thanks, for saving my life from orcs and saving me from myself. From now on and until our races go their separate ways, you will always be welcome in Erebor, Esgal."LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: (Dives behind cover) I REGRET NOTHING! Yeah, Thranduil did not recognize Legolas. He did not see his hair or violet eyes (Besides, Elfling Legolas had the silver-blue eyes of his mother, remember?), and thought he was a Man. They were so close... but so far. :'(This chapter was an AU version of the Battle of the Five Armies. Some of the events were kinda the same, others are completely made up. Those of you who know what happens in The Hobbit can see the obvious AU parts I added... including certain people's survival.And yeah, Bard was OOC in that part but that was because he was sick.Thank you to everyone who reviewed! (hugs) :DResponses to Guest reviews:To "emi": Thank you! Your English is great! :) There will eventually be interaction between him and Gandalf, but not during the Erebor quest arc (kinda obvious since its over now). You got the answer? Congrats! just in time too. I'm leaning towards brothers vs brothers right now for pranks. ;)To "Issy": Thanks!To "Naomi": Thank you for reviewing! He will soon. REALLY soon... ;)To "Fishina": Thank you! No, Radagast did not tell Gandalf.To "FalenOfTheForest": Thanks! I try to update once a week, usually on Monday. Unless I don't have internet access... To "SilverNM": Thank you!Please review!


********** Page 14 **********

A/N: At the library once again so I decided to update. You guys really encouraged me with all of the reviews for last chapter, so here's the next one, only two days later! :DLOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Thirteen: Meeting HopeThird Age 2956 (55 years ago...)Legolas ran.He ran as if Sauron himself were chasing him, leaping and bounding through the trees with a speed so great his vision blurred. The reason for his haste? What had started off as a vague tip-off hinting at danger had turned into a race against time. Legolas carried news that if ignored or delivered too late meant death for a person whose demise would shift the balance of the war in Sauron's favor. What was the information the elf carried?The Witch-King was sending an assassin after Elvenking Thranduil.Legolas did not know why the Nazgûl Lord had decided to kill the Sindar now. Everyone knew that Mirkwood would suffer if Thranduil died, even with his eldest son, Aglar, prepared to take the throne. The death of their King would be a terrible blow against the elves that greatly held back the Shadow. Which was why Legolas was going to make sure the assassin the Witch-King sent would not succeed.The elven assassin's feet pounded against his perches as he pushed himself to go faster. He had no idea when the evil assassin was going to strike. He had to warn the elves! Legolas knew that ever since his escape, Sauron had decided hiring assassins was less costly than risking another renegade. All of Sauron's hired professional killers were men, mostly from the East. They were highly dangerous and well-trained, able to hide in the shadows as easily as the elf.However, they did not have Legolas's experience and heightened senses. The elf could only hope it would be enough so that he could sense and stop the other assassin before he could kill his target. If not... staying hidden would no longer matter. There was no way that Legolas was going to let the Elvenking die.LOTRLOTRLOTRThe sounds of the horses' hooves were muffled on the dirt-and-stone road that the eight stallions trod on. Their riders were all from Rivendell, intent on reaching the palace of the Elvenking before nightfall. The party included Elrond, his twin sons, Aragorn— more commonly known as Estel—, Glorfindel, Erestor, and three warriors of Imladris. The purpose of their visit was mostly at the request of the Elvenking, partly social, and partly because such a visit was far overdue.Recently, Elrond had created a new antidote to Spider venom, using herbs commonly found in Mirkwood. The instructions and preparation of the medicine was complicated and specific, a single mix up or mistake making a poison instead of a healing potion. As such, Elrond and Thranduil had agreed it would be better to have the Elf Lord travel to Mirkwood and teach the healers there the antidote himself in order to avoid harm and potential fatalities.Elrond's sons were traveling with him for safety and because the twins wanted to see their Mirkwood Royal Family friends and introduce them to their adopted brother. At twenty-five years of age, Aragorn was a grown man by human standards, but still quite young to both Men and Elves. He had found out about his heritage seven years ago, at the age of eighteen. He had gone out to join the Rangers and explore Middle-earth right after, just recently returning to his family. The man still felt guilty whenever he remembered how Elrond had greeted him when he had finally returned. The Elf Lord had hugged him tightly, as if he were afraid his son would fade away if he let go.Aragorn knew his departure had been abrupt after he had learned the truth, but he did not know it had affected his family so badly. He had been angry and upset at them all, understanding why Elrond had kept such information from him but still bitter over the truth about his ancestry. Now a terrible destiny hovered over him, like a lingering doom in the back of his mind that refused to leave. The man would rather be in self-imposed exile than claim the throne of Gondor To himself, he was Strider the Ranger and Estel, son of Elrond, not Aragorn, Heir of Isildur and Elessar, future King of Gondor.But it was not only the thought of one day becoming King that burdened the man, but also thoughts and worries about Sauron and the growing Shadow. The Dark Lord was looking for him. Well, not him specifically— not yet anyway. Sauron and his Nazgûl were ever-searching for signs that the line of Kings continued. They had had no luck finding proof of the vague rumors that the elves of Rivendell or Lothlorien had raised and hid the next King. Still, even the least detailed rumors were enough to draw the Shadow's attention. So Aragorn was forced to be careful, only sharing his real name and heritage with very few people. One could never be certain who overheard.Glorfindel was also traveling with his Lord in case of trouble on the road, while Erestor went with them with the intent of making copies of the antidote recipe for the healers' use once in the palace. Finally, Amulug and two other warriors named Rainor and Uilos were accompanying the party, serving as a partial warrior guard along with their charges. It was true that each member of the party could take care of and fight for themselves, but it was better to be safe than sorry.Rainor and Uilos were likable and cheerful enough, talking with the twins and Aragorn while scanning the area, but Amulug was his usual dark self. The vengeful warrior distanced himself from the others, keeping to the edge of the group and not taking part in any discussions within. He did his job but obviously was not pleased with it, though the prospect of entering orc and Spider-infested Mirkwood cheered him up slightly.Personally, Aragorn could not understand why Glorfindel had let the elf come on this mission. Tension between the warrior and Elrond had been rising steadily ever since the Elf Lord had adopted Aragorn. Amulug did not like the human— or any race other than elves— and made it obvious— when Elrond, Glorfindel, and Erestor were not around, anyway. He did not believe a human should live in Rivendell, and should especially not be adopted by the Hidden Valley's leader. Even now, Amulug was sending sharp glares in Aragorn's direction whenever the Elf Lords were not looking.But that antagonism and distance was only a small crack compared to the rift that had formed between Amulug's group and the rest of Rivendell and Lothlorien. Over the past few decades, the warrior and his followers had traveled further and further away from Imladris to hunt orcs, their hatred of the Shadow rising more each passing day. Aragorn understood and respected the warriors for that, but their methods were questionable at times. He had been present ten years ago, when Amulug had been severely reprimanded for almost burning down a human town during his latest excursion. The warrior was careful to toe the line but never cross it, making sure not to give Elrond a reason to carry out his threat of exiling him and his followers from all elven realms.The whole debacle disturbed and worried the House of Elrond. Amulug and his warriors were still soldiers of Rivendell and Lothlorien, yet at the same time they were almost not. While some returned home and reverted back into peaceful, fun, calm elves, others impatiently waited for the next hunt, a wild energy surrounding their every action and thought. It was unnatural for elves to wish to use the violence and anger that Amulug's group sometimes favored. This brought out a new fear that Elrond and his kin had never considered before. Somehow, in some way, the Darkness was affecting them.After long years of distant notation on the behavioral changes in the angry elves, patterns and behavioral shifts were revealed. They were quick to anger, colder, snappish, and more apathetic. They distanced themselves from other elves except those with the same quirks. They were less prone to laugh and never sang, going about their day with stoic grimness. In Rivendell and Lothlorien such behavior was plainly unprovoked and disturbing to see in so many. There was no need for the elves to act like that in the Light, Ring-protected realms. The Shadow could not touch them there.Apparently though, it could.Only one linking element could be found between the elves with this strange personality shift. All of the elves had lost someone to the Shadow— wives, husbands, children, parents, or friends. It appeared that the void created by the loss and the grief that would tarnish their soul until they went West had been filled with hatred and anger. However, this odd personality change did not affect all elves, which brought an even worse truth to light. Whatever was happening, whatever was making these elves vengeful and angry, could most likely only infect them if they let it.No one knew how it had happened, or what to do. It was not as if they had any solid proof, only the terrible instinct and sense that certain powerful elves possessed. It was not as if they could call the elves back to the light, like one could with a wound. This malady was like grief, almost like grief had been replaced by thoughts of vengeance, and could not be magicked away. Amulug and his warriors would only heal and fight the Shadow inside themselves if they wanted to. But they did not want to. And that was the problem.Elrond and Galadriel had kept in contact about their Shadowed elves, and agreed there was nothing they could do now but wait. They could not order the elves West to heal, and outright telling the warriors about the problem would only make it worse. Aragorn knew how such a revelation would be taken. Amulug would claim that Elrond wa prejudiced against him, and would take his warriors and run. That would not help the Elf Lord and Lady of Light in their plan to keep an eye on these warriors. They could only hope that once the Darkness was defeated, the Shadows on the elves' souls would fade.That time could not seem to happen fast enough, especially whenever Aragorn was with Amulug. The elf's attitude towards him varied from cold disdain to hostile action. The man had learned long ago to ignore the elf's hateful and hurtful words, and luckily physical attack was not a problem. Amulug's dark glares and cold sneers could be ignored, but they were utterly disturbing to the man. Sometimes, Aragorn swore that when Amulug looked at him with hate-filled eyes, something other than an elf was glaring at him, ready to rip him apart.Still, Amulug never attacked him— no matter how much the elf looked like he wanted to at times— and insults technically were not a crime, so Aragorn did not speak of his unease to anyone. He had been ignoring Amulug for years and would continue to ignore him for a s long as he needed to. Besides, he was an adult now, and there was no need for him to go running to his father or brothers like a child who was having trouble with a bully."Estel?" The man turned to look at Elrohir, who was watching him with a concerned expression on his face. "Your mind was far away." the younger twin said once his brother's attention was on him. "What are you thinking so intently about? Is something bothering you?"Aragorn shrugged and avoided his eyes, looking up into the treetops. "Nothing is bothering me."Elrohir frowned but did not press him."Is there anything I should know before we get to the palace?" Aragorn asked his brothers, intent on drawing the subject away from his troubling thoughts. "I don't want to be thrown in the dungeons because I unintentionally insulted someone."The twins thought about what he said."Don't speak lightly of the Shadow, orcs, or Spiders." Elladan said first. "Ever. These elves have lost a lot more to them than we have.""Don't go out into the forest without a guide." Elrohir added suddenly. "I know you like to be alone to think but don't run off.""You make me sound like a child," Aragorn grumbled."Not a child," Elladan said. "Just a man who can be quite reckless.""I'm reckless?" Aragorn spluttered indignantly. "You—""Don't try to watch any warriors training without telling them before they start," Elrohir interrupted. "The Mirkwood warriors can be as taut as bowstrings— no pun intended.""So pretty much, I have to be careful or I'm going to get myself killed?" Aragorn asked dryly.The twins nodded."Yes," Elrohir said. "Even with the mystery guardian killing off a bunch or orcs and Spiders, and Dol Guldur's loss in power after the White Council invaded it, Mirkwood is dangerous and its people are even more so. A joke at home can be a deep insult here. Also, I'm not sure how welcome you will be."Aragorn frowned, instantly understanding his meaning. He knew that the Royal Family was slightly prejudiced against men. Thranduil and Aglar would be courteous out of diplomacy if they did not like him but the Ranger was not sure about the other Princes and Princesses."Fael will accept you, no doubts about it," Elladan said encouragingly. "Barhad as well. But Bereneth... well, if she doesn't she'll let you know. Hannel's in Lothlorien so you don't need to worry about her. I'm don't know how Megilag will be. But that's just the worst case scenario. Who knows, they might all be friendly towards you."I hope so... Aragorn thought. Otherwise this trip will be a very unhappy one."That reminds," Elrohir said, and his voice was low and sober. "Don't mention the Lost Prince."A solemn air came over the party at his words. Aragorn vaguely remembered the twins talking about the Lost Elf Prince when he was a child. The mix of grief and rage on their faces had always confused his younger self. It was only later that Aragorn was told the story of Celebrian and how she had been captured by orcs. The news that young Legolas had been taken by the vile creatures still hurt and angered the twins for that reason, even centuries after the event. And if it was still a touchy subject for them, it would only be more taboo with the Royal Family.The man shook his head, thoughts filled with a mixture of anger, sadness, and grief. It pained him deeply that the orcs had taken, tortured, and killed a mere child. Then again, they were evil to their core, and morals did not exist within them. The Lost Prince was just another reminder of how cruel the Darkness could be."I'll remember that," Aragorn said grimly.They rode on in silence for another half hour, moving at a steady pace. The road curved as they traveled along, a deep ravine carved into the earth on their right side. Elladan glanced down the deep chasm at the roiling waters below, whistling softly."I always forget how deep this is." the older twin said. "Be careful not to fall in, Estel."The man scowled at his brother. "I fell in the river once, when I was five.""And you fell off a tree when you were seven." Elrohir commented."And out of a second story window when you were ten," Elladan added."There was also that time you fell off a horse and into a pond when you were fifteen..." Glorfindel joined in."You do tend to fall off of, out of, and into things, Estel." Erestor said dryly.The man did not endow him with a reply. "Are we almost there?" he asked Elrond.The Elf Lord shook his head. "No. Though we should run into a patrol soon.""Stop." Elrohir said suddenly, stopping his horse.The others halted as well, all looking at the younger twin. Beneath them their mounts fidgeted nervously, ears flicking back and forth. Elrohir was silent for a long moment, eyes closed. Aragorn recognized his brother's stance as the one he took when concentrating on sensing something. Almost immediately the Peredhel's eyes snapped open and his head jerked back, looking upward."Above!"Aragorn followed his gaze and caught a glimpse of odd reflections in the trees. Then Spiders were dropping down on them. The man was forced to leap from his horse as a Spider attempted to land directly on him. His stallion was unable to dodge the falling monster and it landed on his back, forcing the horse to the ground. Aragorn stabbed the Spider in the eye before it could kill his mount. The horse gave a neigh, almost like a thank you, and stood. The stallion gave the creature a firm kick, sending it flying into a few of its kin.Nearby, most of the other travelers were still on their horses, but Elrond and Uilos's mounts were dead. The Elf Lord and Rivendell warrior were unharmed, back-to-back with swords drawn. With the two elves on foot, fleeing the Spiders would be impossible in these unfriendly woods. The Spiders screeched at and circled the elves and man, closing in on them."The strongest Spiders' bodies are protected by an exoskeleton so stab hard," Glorfindel said quickly, eyes never leaving the incoming monsters. "The eyes, neck, head, belly, and legs are the weakest points. Be careful with the legs though, some of them have limbs that are sharp like spears."The lone man of the group acknowledged the Balrog-Slayer's statement by slicing off a Spider's head. He could hear the others fighting the Spiders around him, their shouts and war cries not distracting him from his own battle.A Spider loomed over him, snapping at the Ranger with its pincers. Aragorn lodged his blade between the sharp appendages, unsheathing his dagger and stabbing the creature in the eye. It screamed and pulled away, freeing both his blades. The metal was now covered in the black blood of Dark creatures.Ignoring the gore, the man sheathed the knife, holding his sword in both hands. He jumped backwards out of the path of a leaping Spider, stabbing it in the back. A horizontal swing severed three legs off another Spider. It fell sideways, shrieking and hissing. A quick thrust silenced it.A sticky white substance shot through the air from above him, hitting Aragorn's left leg and arm. The man gave a yell as the Spider that created the web pulled on it, dragging the Ranger upwards. Aragorn slashed through the web with his sword, falling to the ground. The landing jostled him but did not hurt.He rolled to the side but the Spider expected the move, landing on top of him and pinning his sword and right arm to the ground. He found himself inches from sharp black pincers. The man quickly unsheathed his dagger, only slightly hindered by the web loosely wrapped around his limb, and stabbed it into the Spider's gut. It screamed and fell next to him. Aragorn rolled away from the corpse, rising to his feet. The Ranger brushed as much of the web off as he could, renewing his full mobility.He cut off a foreleg of another Spider, its hissing grating on his ears. The Ranger stabbed it directly between its pincers, jerking the blade free harshly. Spotting eight of the odd reflections in the trees again, Aragorn notched an arrow to his bow, firing the arrow. The projectile hit the Spider directly in its glassy eye, the corpse falling to the ground.Looking at the grotesque body, Aragorn allowed himself a single moment to shudder. Normal spiders he had no fear of. These ones? Just a little. They were more than scary-looking. He stabbed another Spider in its large round body, sword easily stabbing through the exoskeleton despite Glorfindel's warning. So these were not even the largest and most dangerous Spiders in Mirkwood. The thought was not comforting.The familiar hissing and clicking came from his right. Aragorn turned, eyes narrowing at they looked into the large black orbs of a Spider. This one did not rush him, pausing and screeching as it studied him. It seemed to be considering its next move. The man observed the monster just as intently. The standoff lasted only a few seconds before the Spider bust into motion, springing at the man. Aragorn stepped back, out of its path... and found himself wobbling precariously as his foot landed on the edge of the cliff behind him, almost sending him toppling into the ravine.In the heat of battle, he had forgotten about the ravine, a rookie mistake the the man could already see Glorfindel scolding him for. Seeing its opponent's plight, the Spider lunged again, stabbing at him with its forelegs. The man blocked a blow, wavering, and another strike sent his sword flying from his hand. The force of the blow was enough to finish the job, his equilibrium failing completely as the shove unbalanced him fullt.Unable to right himself, Aragorn fell backwards, plummeting over the edge of the cliff. He thought he heard one of the twins scream his name, but could not be sure over the sound of the air as it rushed past him. The man tumbled and spun as he fell towards the river, his uncontrolled free-fall soon to be halted by the rushing water. The brown-gray cliff he fell beside rushed by at incredible speeds, seeming to move while he stayed still. The impact was going to hurt, a lot. But oddly enough, though his body was tense with panic, his thoughts were calm. He was shocked, surprised, and bewildered, but unafraid as he fell.Perhaps I do fall off of things too much, the man thought blankly, unable to fully register what was happening.His head struck the side of the rocky ravine, and everything went black.LOTRLOTRLOTRLegolas was still running through the treetops when the shadowed trees sudden, hissing laughs made him lose his footing. The assassin fell three feet before he grabbed a branch, swinging up and landing on a sturdy limb. He glanced around at the trees, confused by their glee. Very few things could make shadowed trees excited like this. Usually their cheer meant something was having its life threatened. Even with Daelas's influence, the shadowed trees were still prone to sadistic streaks.What has made you all so pleased? He asked them cautiously.The trees rustled and shook, still laughing their strange, distorted laughs. Too-bright-glowing elves and a man ran into Spiders upriver, they said happily.The assassin stiffened, heart pounding in his chest. What? Are any dead? He asked, hiding his alarm.No. The shadowed trees answered, irritated once more. The too-bright elves are riding away now, alongside the river. Look at how fast they flee...Sometimes, dealing with the shadowed trees was plainly unnerving. Usually the trees remained relatively peaceful around Daelas, only one thing able to make them the cruel, Dark things that many saw them as. That "thing" was elves. The shadowed trees could not stand the too-bright elves, and even Daelas had trouble keeping them from harming his kin at times. If he asked them to leave the elves alone, they would, but that would not stop them from letting Spiders and orcs attack the elves. Because although the shadowed trees hated orcs and Spiders— they were the enemies of Daelas— they despised the too-bright elves. The Shadow-born instinct to destroy the Light creatures was too great for them to want to assist the Eldar. But at least Legolas had gotten them to not try to kill the elves, for the most part. Otherwise the elves would barely be able to leave their cities and villages without being struck down by the shadowed trees.Are any of them injured? Legolas asked the trees, keeping his voice from sounding concerned.No. No elves are harmed. The man fell into the ravine, the shadowed trees said dismissively.They did not care about men. Men had no too-bright-glow but could not hear them like Daelas did. Humans were loud and a nuisance but not a threat to the trees or Daelas. The shadowed trees did not care about men. They were a short-lived, annoying race, but were only like gnats to the trees. It was amusing to scare men when they came into Mirkwood, but that was where the shadowed trees' interest in them ended.Legolas was more curious and concerned. Could the man they spoke of be the assassin he searched for?That was unlikely, seeing as he seemed to be traveling with the elves. He looked upriver, then in the direction of the part of the river that was closest to him. He was less than a half-mile away, and could easily go to try to find the man. But what about his mission? He had to warn the Elvenking about the assassin!The man's elven companions are searching for him, Legolas thought. But they still have to climb down the cliff-face that swoops down after the ravine ends. That will take them a while. I'm closer and know this forest. I can find the man faster. If he's injured he will need help. Where is the man now? The assassin asked the trees, voice neutral and betraying none of the urgency he felt.Downriver, they said in that same, uncaring tone. We can see him next to the water.Lead me there, Legolas told them.The trees' unpredictable moods shifted once more, interest and enthusiasm entering their thoughts. Daelas was interested in the man. They did not understand why, but they would show him the mortal. Following the trees' directions, the elf slowly became aware of the man's presence. It was strong but his energy was sluggish, so he was most likely unconscious or injured then.The assassin was soon at the river. The location he had been led to was shortly after the ravine ended, where the land was barely above the waterline. Legolas spotted the man immediately, lying limp at the rushing water's edge.He had dark hair and wore the garb of a Ranger. The man was laying on his side, facing away from the river, his clothes soaked and dripping water. A small trickle of blood was running down the side of his head. The elf could see him breathing, his chest rising and falling steadily. He could not have swallowed much water then.Legolas ran up to the unconscious human, kneeling down and listening to his chest. His lungs were clear, confirming his first assessment. The assassin carefully felt around the small wound on the man's head, feeling no large contusions or unnatural bumps and edges that would suggest a broken skull. It was unlikely he had a serious head injury, and a quick scan of the rest of the man told Legolas he had no other broken bones or large wounds.The elf shook his head in amazement. You are either the luckiest human out there because you fell into a ravine and only got a bump on the head, or you are the unluckiest man alive because you fell into a ravine at all.He lifted the man, carrying him away from the water's edge and into the trees. The assassin set him down, leaning him against a tree and ripping off a part of his cloak, dabbing at the small cut on the man's temple. The bleeding had stopped, but the human would have an ugly bruise and a bump soon enough.Now what? Legolas questioned himself. I have no idea of when the assassin is going to strike, only that he is already in Mirkwood. I need to warn the elves, but I can't just leave this man here alone—The man shifted, moaning.Legolas leapt away from him, resisting the urge to reach for his weapons. He watched warily as silver eyes— familiar eyes— fluttered open, a puzzled expression crossing the man's features. He looked around in confusion, eyes quickly landing on the elf. Instantly the man was on his feet, hand groping for a weapon that was no longer at his hip. Abandoning his useless search, the man settled into a defensive stance, ready to dodge or attack if necessary. He kept a careful eye on the cloaked and hooded figure in front of him. Legolas did not move, keeping his posture nonthreatening and calm."Relax." he said. "I am a friend."Slowly, the elf reached up and lowered his hood and facial mask, revealing his hair, eyes, and other features. The man paused, peering at him but only blinked once in surprise as his silver eyes met Legolas's violet. He did not speak, keeping his silence. Elf and man stared at each other mutely for a time.Well, this is the first time I am the one that has to instigate a conversation, Legolas thought. "You are a very lucky man." he said to the human. "Not many of your race would be able to fall in a ravine and escape from the encounter with only a bump and a few cuts to show for it. Do you hurt anywhere?""Nothing serious..." the man replied slowly. "I only have a headache and a few small aches. Other than that, I'm fine." His silver eyes scanned the trees, then looked up at the sun, like he was trying to judge his location. "I am downriver?""Yes." Legolas said simply. "I do not know where you fell in, but you can see the end of the ravine over there." The elf pointed at the distant cliff-like structure. "You have never been to Mirkwood before, have you?" he asked intuitively, noting the man's still-lost expression."No, I have not." he admitted reluctantly. "I was traveling to the Elvenking's palace with my father and brothers."The elf's head tipped and he studied the man acutely. "All of your companions were elves." he stated.The man paused, most likely wondering how he knew that, then nodded. "Yes..." His features— surprisingly easy for Legolas to read— shifted rapidly from wariness to conflict to pondering before settling into a decided expression. "My name is Estel, and I am the adopted son of Lord Elrond of Imladris."The adopted son of Lord Elrond? Could he be...? Legolas discreetly studied the man next to him, taking in the familiar dark hair, jawline, and bright silver eyes. Now he knew why the man's eyes were familiar. A smile flashed across the assassin's face. It is! How quickly the years have passed. The last time I saw you you were only a babe, Aragorn son of Arathorn.Estel— Aragorn— was watching him, waiting for the elf to introduce himself. The elf took a moment to take in the man that the babe he had carried to Rivendell had become. The eye color and hair was the same, but the baby that had chewed on his hair was completely gone, replaced by a Ranger and warrior... and maybe, one day, a King.Legolas did not see the babe he had taken to Imladris, or the child that Elrond, the twins, and many other elves sometimes saw when looking at their brother, son, or friend. He only saw a warrior and a grown man, with a fire in his eyes and determination in his brow. A man, that for some reason, he felt an instant connection with."It is a pleasure to meet you, Estel." Legolas said with a small grin. "My name is Esgal."LOTRLOTRLOTRMan and elf stood on the riverbank, almost unaware of the world around them. They were focused on each other, halfway in and out of the mindset that the other might be a threat. Both were wary but cautiously reaching out and trusting each other in the smallest way. Soon that small crack in the gate that held their trust would burst open, and a friendship would be formed that few could compare to, even among the race of elves. But for now, the two guarded themselves, even as the far-less-trusting elf granted the human a smile."It is a pleasure to make your acquaintance as well, Esgal." Aragorn said, glancing down at his empty scabbard."If you had your sword when you fell into the river it is gone," the violet-eyed elf informed him.The Ranger shook his head, wringing out a bit of his cloak. "I lost it before I fell into the ravine.""During your fight with the Spiders, then." Esgal stated.Aragorn glanced at him, eyes narrowed. "How do you know about that? And how do you know I was traveling only with elves?"The glow-less elf's eyes closed and his head tipped, as if he were listening to something the man could not hear. "Normally Spiders only attack loners or those who wander into their nests, depending on the number of them compared to the number of elves they are facing. The ones that attacked you must have been desperate." He murmured, almost to himself.The Ranger glared at him. "You did not answer my questions. In fact, you just completely ignored them!"Violet eyes opened and met his silver orbs. "The trees told me of your battle and companions, Estel. They have just informed me that your adoptive father, Glorfindel, Erestor, and that moody warrior are headed to the palace to ask the Elvenking to send out a search party while your brothers and the other warrior continue to look for you."That made Aragorn pause. "The trees told you?" He looked around at the dark, angry-looking shadowed trees around them. "But elves can only talk to Light trees."A vaguely uncomfortable look crossed Esgal's face before he slipped back into a blank mask. "I can speak with the shadowed trees." he said shortly. "They assist me as well."The man stared at him, all of the facts his father had told him about elves and shadowed trees running through his head. "Really? You can understand them? And they listen to you?""Yes." the elf said after a pause. "I know their language and they do not hate me because I have no glow, unlike other elves.""Amazing." Aragorn breathed. "I have never heard of an elf that..." he paused, mouth moving silently, before his eyes widened with realization. "You're the Hidden Guardian, aren't you?"Esgal looked taken aback. "What?""The Hidden Guardian. The person that protects the forest and killed all of those orcs and Spiders." the man explained.A perplexed expression crossed the elf's face. "I have never heard someone call me that before."The man blushed at his words. "Glorfindel used to tell me stories about the warrior that protected Middle-earth from the Shadow when I was younger. He never named you, just calling you "the warrior", so I decided to call you "the Hidden Guardian".""Glorfindel told you stories about me?" Esgal sounded flabbergasted. "I had no idea."The man gave him a sharp look, piecing together bits of the puzzle. "You know each other." Aragorn stated slowly.Esgal gave him a neutral look. "Do we?" he asked."Yes." the Ranger said firmly. "I can tell by both your words and tone."The two stared intently at each other, Legolas debating whether he should deny it and Aragorn knowing he was right."... Fine. You're right. We do know each other." the elf admitted after a pause. "He is a close friend of mine." A frown crossed his face and his eyes darkened. "Speaking of friends, I'm afraicd that I have to cut this conversation short. I need to get to the palace.""That was where I was traveling to." Aragorn said, stepping forward to stand in front of him. The news that the mysterious elf was the Hidden Guardian, and Glorfindel's friend had caused the remainder of the man's wariness to expire. "Why are you headed there?""The Witch-King has sent an assassin to kill the Elvenking." the elf said bluntly. "I must warn the elves and stop the assassin before he can kill his target."Aragorn's entire person changed from slightly awed to determined and grim. "We had better get moving then." he stated.He prepared himself for the elf to say no, that the man would only slow him down and get in the way. His brothers were out searching for him, he should stay here, the forest was dangerous, ect. It came as a surprise when Esgal only nodded, turning towards the forest."Follow me."The elf ran into the forest and the man— after a startled pause— went after him. Aragorn was slightly faster than most humans but Esgal was still forced to move at a slower pace than his usual, particularly since he could not go bounding through the trees to reach his destination. They moved quickly through the forest, the elf leaving no trace and the man leaving only a small trail to follow. He was used to having to run through the woods."I am surprised that you are willing to pass on this message to the elves and thus reveal yourself to them." Aragorn said. "I may not know much about the Mirkwood elves and Royal Family but I am sure they do not know about you. Of you, perhaps, but not know you.""That assumption is correct." the elf said. "But my preference to remain an anonymous guardian does not matter as much as the warning I must give."The Ranger nodded in agreement. "Do you know why the Witch-King has decided to kill Thranduil now? And how do you know about the assassin at all?""I followed a vague tip off and it turned out to be a large plan made by the Enemy." the elf told him. "Apparently the Witch-King thinks his forces will be able to return in force to Mirkwood if the Elvenking dies.""That is a very real assumption," Aragorn murmured darkly. "If Thranduil dies, the Woodland realm will be in chaos. The people will lose their will to fight.""Exactly." Esgal said, and his violet eyes flashed in anger. "That is the way of the Shadow."Not slowing, he leapt over a large root, the Ranger following suit."Esgal," Aragorn murmured suddenly, studying the elf beside him. ""Hidden." That is a name that suits you well. But still, what an interesting name it is."The pale blonde-haired elf's eyebrow quirked upward as he looked at the man. "If you say so, Hope."The man groaned, shaking his head. "Don't say it in Westron, please. It sounds like a girl's name!""It is a girl's name," Esgal said innocently."Shut up, Elfling." the Ranger snapped irritably."Excuse me?" the elf asked quietly, violet eyes narrowing as his mood shifted from cheerful to dark.His dangerous expression made the man quickly backtrack. "I didn't say anything."Esgal smirked. "That's what I thought."They continued on through the forest in companionable silence, focusing on reaching their goal. The uneven ground was passed over easily by both, the man showing great agility and sure-footedness for his kind. Being raised by elves really had its benefits.The elf continued their conversation abruptly, almost making the Ranger trip as the silence between them was broken. "I call myself Esgal not only because I wish to hide from my enemies, but because my past is hidden from me. I do not remember my birth parents or where I come from. I do not even remember my mother's hair color anymore. I was raised by a Dunedan named Ciaran from when I was five years old. He was killed by orcs many years ago.""I'm sorry." Aragorn murmured.A flicker of pain crossed Esgal's face before vanishing. "It is all right. The past is the past. Ever since my adoptive father's death I have made it my mission to fight against the Shadow. Mostly I assist by slaying orc patrols and rescuing people, it seems.""From what I hear, you have a great part in keeping this forest from falling into darkness," the man mused. "It is amazing that one elf can do so much.""I have help," the elf said modestly. "The shadowed trees assist me."Aragorn did not respond. His eyes were on the ground, a frown marring his features. "Look at this." he said suddenly, kneeling on the ground and brushing aside some leaves.Esgal knelt beside him, fist clenching at his side as he spotted what the man had seen. "That is a boot print. No elf would leave a mark like that.""A man has been through here," the Ranger murmured, walking along slowly as he followed the barely noticeable trail. "He tried to hide his tracks but he failed, slipping up in small ways anyone who was not a tracker would not notice...""No man would come through here. Not alone." Esgal stated with surety. "Unless..." His violet eyes widened and he grinned slyly at the Ranger. "You do have quite the luck, Estel.""Maybe...But once again my luck could be good or bad, depending on what happens next." Aragorn said softly, eyes on the broken twigs he spotted. "I do believe that we have found the assassin's trail."But will we be able to stop him, or will he stop us? The man thought.LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: You all knew this was going to happen eventually. :) I made sure not to have Legolas and Aragorn meet and bond when the man was a child in Rivendell because I didn't want Legolas to befriend Estel the child. I wanted him to become friends with Aragorn the adult.Next chapter is a continuation of this one, so don't worry about a time skip. The last section was originally the beginning of next chapter but I decided to put it in this one. I may have to edit it a bit later so it fits more smoothly... Or am I just over-thinking it? ?O_O?By the way, here's the answer to the word-mix up from Chapter Four: Village By the Sea (I forgot to put this last chapter):VOTE FAME BE THREATS HIT LIFEHints: The answer is six words. The second word starts with a "B". The first and fourth word are the same.Answer: THE BATTLE OF THE FIVE ARMIESThank you all for reviewing! A very special thank you to "Pie In the Face" for being the 200th reviewer! YAAAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYY!Responses to Guest reviewers:To "ethuil": Thank you! To "Issy": Thanks for reviewing! To "Nightrunner144": Its fun to make Legolas scare Bilbo. :P Thank you! To "Naomi": Thanks! ...I'm not answering that question. ;)To "Fishina": He shows up next chapter. Thank you for reviewing! To "kociak": Thanks!To "emi": Thank you! I love to surprise people and hate following canon. I also hate being stuck with things like "Should I kill this guy because he died in canon or should I have the changes I made be enough to save him?" I did that with Thorin, Fili, and Kili because the AU wasn't different enough yet that I could avoid it. In that one instance it was worth it though. :) As we get into Part Two, the AU will be severe enough that I can disregard canon almost completely, and do my own thing. In my opinion, that's better than me following canon in an AU way. If I do the latter option, people will be thinking things like "Will Legolas save Boromir or not? Will he go with Frodo and Sam to destroy the Ring or stay with Aragorn? Will he stop Gandalf from falling in Moria or not?" etc. To be blunt, I would get bored writing the story if I did that. So be ready for more surprises. Like I said last chapter, the story will become severely AU in Part Two. (...I think I just ranted at you. Oops. O_O')The smallest change in appearance can keep people from recognizing one another. This is especially true with Legolas and Thranduil because Legolas was a young child the last time they saw each other. It will be explained why Legolas never lets out his inner light later. It's partially a trust thing. You're right, if he does stop suppressing his inner light, his eyes will return to their silver-blue shade. I won't say anything else now. Fael and Legolas/Esgal will have a special, close bond... The elves of Mirkwood actually are not the last people who will discover him. ;) Wow. That response was long. :PTo "FalenOfTheForest": Thanks! There is going to be a Fellowship, but its purpose is going to be AU. Yes, Legolas will be in it. Please review!


********** Page 15 **********

Disclaimer: I don't own Lord of the Rings.A/N: Finally, I'm able to update! A little warning: My computer is still being a jerk and keeps changing and "devolving" (as in turning my documents into older versions of the document) my documents without me noticing. I haven't looked at this chapter for three weeks. If something seems out of place, rushed, misspelled, missing, or makes no sense at all, please tell me because my dumb laptop probably did something. :(Enjoy the chapter!LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Fourteen: Familiar FacesThird Age 2956 (55 years ago...)Aragorn truly was an extraordinary tracker, as was expected from a Ranger. He found each small unnatural indent in the earth and every broken twig and disturbed leaf that the human assassin left behind. Legolas— while adept at tracking targets— was nowhere near the man's level of expertise in the area."Your skills are impressive, Estel." the elven assassin said approvingly. "You are quite the Ranger."Said Ranger looked up at him, dark eyebrows raised. "How do you know I am a Ranger?""Your skills and cloak, along with the way that you move through the forest," Legolas informed him. "It is not only your adopted family that makes you at home in the woods.""You wear a similar cloak," Aragorn pointed out. "You are not a Ranger."The elf shrugged, his dappled green-brown cloak rippling with the movement. "These colors help me to blend easily in the woods. But you are correct, I am no Ranger, through I have been mistaken for one many times.""I can see that. Since you have no glow, you could be seen as a man if you hide your ears." the man said thoughtfully, studying the elf before returning his eyes to the ground."Yes. I use that to my advantage." the assassin explained. "Elves are not easily accepted in some places, and it is good to be underestimated."Aragorn sighed, still moving along the trail few would notice. "Yet after a while, it is also irritating to always be underestimated."Legolas's eyes moved over the man's still-young features. There were no lines on his face from the sun and wind, and a youthful glow remained in his silver eyes. "You are young among your people and practically a child among the Eldar," he said knowingly. "And sometimes, you are treated as such." When the man looked at him sharply he continued. "Glorfindel spoke of you occasionally, so I know small bits about you, Estel. I have also interacted with many men and know that they can find family to be overprotective as they grow older."The Ranger sighed, eyes returning to the human assassin's tracks. "You are correct. Ever since I returned from my extended journey, my family have been conflicted about me at times. Sometimes they wish to protect me, other times they know I am an adult and can take care of myself, and still other times they treat me like I am an ignorant child.""You are no child, but you are still young and have much to learn, Estel." The assassin said. "You are Dunedan, and have plenty of time to improve and gain wisdom. Your family will learn to let you go eventually."The man did not know what to say to that. Instead he spoke of the trail they were following. "We should catch up to him soon, before he can get to the palace."Legolas closed his eyes, concentrating, and felt a vague presence nearby. "You are correct. He is close."Surprise crossed Aragorn's features. "You can sense him?""Ciaran taught me how to sense all creatures." Legolas explained shortly. "I must ask you to remain here while I take care of the assassin."The man bristled. "May I ask why?"He gave the Ranger a pointed glare. "I am quite sure that you do not have any weapons other than that dagger, which will not help in this fight."Aragorn grimaced. "What do you expect me to do then?"Legolas pinned him with violet eyes. "Stay."He vanished into the forest before the man could respond. Aragorn did not move for exactly two seconds before he tracked the human assassin once more. He knew that he would not be able to help much in the fight, but he was not about to let Esgal face an assassin alone. If the Witch-King had sent the man after the Elvenking, that meant that the assassin was a dangerous fighter, one that had most likely been handpicked by Sauron himself. The Ranger did not know if the elf could handle such an enemy. If he could, Aragorn would stay out of the fight. But if not, he would be there to assist Esgal.Aragorn knew his motives were more than a need to do something and refusing to sit by and wait. He found himself caring for the strange elf he had just met, though he did not quite know why. Ever since discovering his heritage, Aragorn was slow to make and trust friends and allies. Yet here he was in the forest, going after a mysterious elf he had just met to assist him against an assassin that would kill him if he ever discovered that he was Isildur's Heir. Helpful, courageous, and genuine he might be, Aragorn still was not the type to interfere in the battles of others. But he found that he could not stay in the woods and wait for the victor to emerge from the battle between Esgal and the Witch-King's assassin. He had to make sure that the elf was going to be all right. He just had to.Perhaps it was because Esgal was the Hidden Guardian that Aragorn found himself trusting and caring for the elf so thoroughly. Or maybe it was because the elf's selfless nature in general. He had come to the man's assistance without being asked, and had planned on revealing himself to the elves to warn them of danger despite his wish to avoid them. Esgal may have been a seasoned warrior and killer, but the Ranger could see a youthfulness and genuine joy about him that was rarely seen in elves anymore.It was ironic that Esgal, an elf who suppressed his inner light seemed like the most carefree and Light elf Aragorn had ever met while the other elves were beginning to be worn down by the Shadow. It was like the elves wore their inner light's and souls on their sleeves, allowing them to be tarnished, while Esgal guarded his and hid it from sight, keeping it safer and fully Light...Aragorn shook his head, focusing on the tracks once more. Now was not the time for musings. Now was the time for action. He had to get to Esgal and the assassin.Because regardless of his motives, he was not about to let the elf face this enemy alone.LOTRLOTRLOTRLegolas crouched in a tree, the limbs above his head hiding him in their shadows. He watched the Enemy's assassin walk carefully below him, the man moving quickly but not so fast that he made unnecessary noise. The man was an Easterling, wearing dark clothes with a face-mask much like the elf's. The human assassin seemed to be expecting an attack. His bow was in his hand with an arrow notched to the string. The violet-eyed assassin watched his movements carefully, noting every hidden weapon he spotted as the man's clothes pressed against his skin.Sword, throwing knives, garote, bow and arrows, shuriken. Hidden knives in his boots and sleeves, along with one on his lower back. A small vial in his chest pocket, most likely filled with poison...The elf put an arrow to his bow, sighting along the shaft. He pulled back, prepared to release the arrow. A glint caught his eye and he paused. Legolas's eyes moved along the exposed blade of the man's sword, noting the smoothness and perfection of the blade. His eyes widened slightly and he nodded to himself.So that is how it is. All right then.His aim shifted, and he fired.The Easterling assassin jerked in surprise as the arrow flew by him. He spun, sighting Legolas as the elf dropped to the ground, casting his bow aside. The other assassin raised his own bow, only to discover the string had been sliced in two. He stiffened, staring at it, then threw the useless weapon away, facing the elf. Violet eyes met dark brown and the Easterling nodded once in understanding.Legolas lunged but the other assassin leapt backwards, avoiding his strike. The elf followed the move, stepping forward and stabbing at the man's throat. The other assassin dodged, hand flexing as a weapon fell into his palm. Legolas expected the move and avoided the throwing knife, stepping out of the weapon's path. The Easterling dashed forward, throwing several shuriken as he ran. Legolas dodged the throwing stars, blocking a few that came close to him, and let his enemy come.The other assassin leapt at him, sword unsheathed. Legolas dodged his swings, leaning backwards to avoid a sweeping slash . He went on the offensive, stabbing at the other assassin with quick, rapid thrusts. The man evaded and blocked the first few attacks but one sharp blade made it past his defense, slicing his arm. The Easterling cursed and jumped back, reasserting himself before springing back into the fight.The elf evaded a stab and blocked a blow aimed at his right side. He felt a small pinch in his right arm and felt it go numb. Before his dagger fell from his numb fingers, he twisted to the side out of the path of the Easterling's sword. He delivered a harsh blow to the man's shoulder, his blade sinking in up to the hilt. The man cried out and stumbled away, Legolas's knife still in his arm.The elf took the momentary respite to press a point on his own shoulder, negating the pressure point the other assassin had used and sending a bolt of pain up his arm in the process. The violet-eyed assassin ignored the prickling pain in his limb and reengaged his enemy, not giving him time to recover.He pulled his weapon from the man's shoulder, shifting sideways as the other tried to stab him once more. As the man's arm went past him, Legolas cut his sword-hand, fingers slipping into the other assassin's sleeve to deftly retrieve the garote kept there.The human dropped his sword , blood dripping down his fingers. Ignoring the pain, he unsheathed the knives in his sleeves. A sharp blow sent the elf's remaining dagger flying. Legolas ducked and twisted, avoiding the blades. He hit the other assassin in the left forearm, using the same pressure point the man had used on him, and slammed his closed fist into the man's other hand.There was a low crunching sound as theEasterling's hand broke, the knife slipping from his hold and falling to the ground. The elf moved behind the man, slipping the garote over the other's head, tightening it. The Enemy's assassin choked, panic quickly setting in as his air was cut off. He thrashed but the elf held him firmly, standing behind the man.A kick to the back of the man's knee forced him to kneel, and Legolas gripped the man's head, twisting. With a snap as loud as a lightning-strike in the silence, the man's neck broke, his death so quick it was unlikely that he even felt any pain.The victor gently lowered his deceased enemy to the ground, laying him straight before standing. The elf looked down at his fallen enemy, an unreadable expression on his face. His thoughts were in turmoil, grimness, anger, and sadness flowing through him.That would have been me, if the Witch-King had succeeded in his plan, Legolas thought numbly. Except no one would have been here to stop me, and I would have assassinated the Elvenking.There was no doubt in his mind about this. If Ciaran had not returned to the side of Good, Legolas would have been raised like the Witch-King wanted, and would have become the Hand of Sauron. Ciaran still would have trained him to the best of his ability, so Legolas would have the same skills as he did now, but only using them for a much darker purpose. Legolas shoved the "what ifs" from his mind. There were no benefits from thinking about what might have been if things had turned out differently.Legolas turned and picked up his knives and bow. He sensed the person hiding in the trees and sighed. "You saw all of that, I presume?"Aragorn emerged from the foliage cautiously. "I came to see if you needed help."The assassin gave him a thin smile. "Thank you, but that was unnecessary."Silver eyes landed on the dead enemy and the Ranger nodded in agreement. "I can see that. You fight... very well." He glanced at the elf, expression guarded. "You fought almost like him. Like an assassin."Legolas hesitated, eyes not leaving the Ranger's face. "That is because I am one. Ciaran, the Dunedan that raised me, trained me to be an assassin. One that would defend the Free People of Middle-earth and fight against the Shadow."Aragorn quietly studied the dead assassin a moment longer. He showed none of his thoughts on his face. "...Why didn't you just shoot him?" the man asked quietly. "You could have done it."The elf was silent, trying to think of a way to explain. "Ciaran's teachings come from a variety of cultures, including that of the Easterlings. Against what you might believe, not all Easterlings fight for Sauron. In fact many of the Easterlings would never take part in the Shadow's plans. They believe in honor and fighting opponents with honor. That Easterling may have been an assassin, but he was one who followed their code of honor." The elf knelt and picked up the dead assassin's sword, showing it to Aragorn. "I know this because his blades are not notched.""What does that have to do with anything?" Aragorn asked, confused.Legoals frowned at him. "By notching the blade, you weaken it slightly, the metal becoming more likely to crack, dull, or even break. In the East, notched blades are the blades of pirates, corsairs, and dishonorable people. Those men use notches to show how many people they have killed. A large notch represents a male. A medium notch represents a female. And a small notch represents the death of a child with that blade. Those men— the one who are proud of killing so many of their own kind and wish to show it— are normally the type of people who work for Sauron. But this one had a blade that was not notched." He looked down at the man's calm face. "I do not know why he was working for the Witch-King, but he was an honorable man. I respect that, and as such, refused to shoot him from the shadows. When I came upon him, I shot at his bow, cutting the string, and dropped my own bow to the ground. That told him that I understood he was a man of honor, and would engage him in close combat." The elf's lips pressed together. "In the Easterling's culture, there is such a thing as an honorable and dishonorable or shameful death. It is their belief that an honorable death will send their spirit to their Hall of Mandos, and a shameful death will trap them in a terrible void for eternity. If I shot him in the back from the shadows in a sneak attack, his death would be dishonorable. But because I fought him in hand-to-hand and thus killed him, his death is honorable."Aragorn stared at him. "I never knew that about the Easterlings." he said."Not all of them are evil you know." Legolas said flatly. "You Westerners would do well to learn more about them and other cultures in Middle-earth.""When I return to Rivendell I will look into it." the man promised.Legolas granted him a small smile. "Good." His expression sobered as his gaze returned to the assassin. "His body must be burned. Otherwise it will attract unwanted creatures."The man and elf quickly built a pyre in the closest clearing. The dry wood they had gathered easily lit, a fire turning the Easterling's body to ash. Legolas watched the flames for a moment before turning away, walking back to the forest."We need to get moving. It is almost dark and your family is most likely frantic by now.""All right then." Aragorn agreed. "You are still leading me to the palace?"The elf gave him a flat look. "Why wouldn't I? I can't just leave you here to wander around alone. You might find a ravine to fall into."The man had a defeated air about him. "When I am old and gray, you are still going to tease me about that, aren't you?""Of course," the assassin told him, laughing as they walked. "I will never let you forget it."Aragorn groaned.LOTRLOTRLOTRWith every step they took towards their destination, Aragorn could see Esgal become tenser. But instead of looking worried or nervous, the elf became frigid, a blank mask put in place. He could almost physically see the assassin debating whether he should reveal himself. His face held no emotion, but his body tensed and his eyes flickered as he thought."Why are you so wary of meeting the elves?" the Ranger asked the elf suddenly.Esgal stepped over a protruding tree root, silent, and for a moment the man thought that he was not going to answer. Then the elf spoke. "For quite a while, whenever I think of showing myself to the elves, I get a terrible feeling. It is like my instincts are screaming at me to stay away from the elves, for my own safety. It is as if by remaining hidden, I am keeping myself out of the sight of people who would do me harm." His brow creased. "I do not know or understand why I feel like that. I do not fear my kin, and I know that they are not my enemy. They are not allies of the Shadow."At his words, Aragorn's thoughts flashed to Amulug. "I'm not too sure about that..." the man muttered."What are you talking about?" Esgal asked sharply.The man twitched and cursed himself for forgetting about elves' sensitive hearing. "Nothing important." he said hastily.Esgal gave him a disbelieving look but let did not press him for the truth. He led the Ranger along a trail that only he could see, the elf finding the easiest path through the forest towards their destination. Slowly the trees grew brighter, their leaves turning from almost-black into a much healthier emerald shade. The tension and heaviness left the air, relieving Aragorn like a breath of cool breeze. They were in the Light part of Mirkwood now, the parts of the forest closest to the palace and still resisting the encompassing Darkness.The elf stopped walking so abruptly that the man ran into his back. The man tensed, watching his companion with worry as Esgal turned to the left. His violet eyes narrowed and he peered into the forest intently. Aragorn subconsciously touched the hilt of his dagger, his only remaining weapon, eying the seemingly calm forest around him. He had to remind himself that even though this part of Mirkwood was not as black and dreary as the parts drowned in Shadow, it was still dangerous, and nowhere near as Light as Rivendell remained."What is it?" he asked softly, ready for enemies to leap at them from the foliageEsgal was silent a moment, unmoving except for his eyes. Then he relaxed, though his gaze did not leave the direction he was facing. "Your brothers and another elf are over that way."Aragorn felt a rush of relief before he winced. "They must be returning to the palace after searching for me."He cringed at his own words. The Ranger could just imagine the stress and guilt the twins were feeling right now. They had not found him and were most likely blaming themselves for their failure. Eager to relieve the burden on his brothers' minds, Aragorn quickened his pace, running in the direction Esgal had indicated. Soon enough, the man could see three shapes moving through the forest. He recognized his brothers, but the third elf was a stranger, most likely a warrior of Mirkwood."Elladan!" the Ranger called. "Elrohir!"All three elves turned. Their sharp eyes spotted him instantly, his movements negating any hiding affect his cloak may have had."Estel!" Elrohir cried, dismounting and running over to him.Elladan and the silver-haired warrior followed quickly. Elrohir closed the distance between them first, pulling his brother into a hug."Are you all right?" he asked urgently, pulling back and scanning the man for any injuries."I'm fine,"Aragorn assured him. "Really." He insisted as the twin continued checking him.Satisfied that the man truly was not hiding any injuries and was indeed fine— for once— Elrohir stood back and glared at the man. "We've been searching all over for you! We thought you had died." Now anger was overtaking the twin's tone, a scolding and peeved note entering his voice. "What were you thinking, not staying near the river? You could have run into a Spiders' nest! How did you even find your way here?"The Ranger ignored the comment about his competency in traveling through Mirkwood, instead answering the last query. "I had... help getting here." the Ranger admitted.He glanced nervously at the trees where he knew Esgal was watching. Unless he had left already. Aragorn could not tell. Elrohir, Elladan, and Fael looked in the same direction as the man, confusion on their faces."Esgal?" the man called cautiously. "Will you come out? These are my brothers and..." He looked at the silver-haired elf apologetically."Fael. My name is Fael." the silver-haired elf introduced, looking in the same direction as the man with curiosity in his eyes.In the forest, Legolas was motionless, watching the four peer in his direction while remaining hidden from their sight. The assassin remained quiet and did not answer Aragorn's call, debating with himself. A few steps. Only a few steps would bring him out into the open. A few steps would reveal him to three more elves he was nervous to meet.Legolas closed his eyes, uncertain, and suddenly realized that the feeling was not there. The instinct to remain hidden was absent, only natural nerves keeping him from moving. Confusion overcame the assassin for a moment— Why was the feeling not there?— but he pushed it aside. Taking a deep breath, the elf walked out of the shadows, into the open.Elladan, Elrohir, and Fael jumped in surprise, the figure in a brown and green dappled cloak seeming to materialize out of the forest like a spirit. The first thing they noticed about the newcomer was his bright violet eyes. The eyes held their attention as fully as a spot of light in absolute darkness, the unnatural, glowing feature taking over every ounce of their observance. Then they blinked twice, broadening their awareness to take in his other features. Fair skin, pale blonde hair, pointed ears, a bow, and two long knives were all noted and filed away in their minds. Elladan and Elrohir lingered in mindless shock, but the sight of the hair sent a dull flare of pain through Fael's chest.His hair is the same color as Legolas's was...Fael felt like he should know this elf. He felt as if he had met him somewhere before, and recognized him in a way he could not explain. The hair was familiar. So, so familiar. But the eyes— the bright violet eyes that the Prince did not know were naturally silver-blue— stayed in his mind. His grief was much too old for him to clutch at a connection like similar hair color. If the eyes had been silver-blue, if he had not heard Aragorn call the elf "Esgal", if the elf was not a full adult that barely resembled the elfling brother he had lost, then Fael might have asked questions, demanded answers, and reached for strands of hope. But the death of his brother had long ago been accepted by Fael. And so he did not think further than that."Who are you?" the Prince asked instead."As Estel said, I am Esgal," the violet-eyed elf replied in his soft, musical voice."He helped me after I fell in the ravine and guided me here," Aragorn elaborated. He looked at the twins, a grin on his face. "He is the Hidden Guardian from Glorfindel's "stories", the one who has been killing orcs and saving people from the Shadow." A scowl crossed the man's features. "Speaking of which, I am going to have a talk with him about that later..."To the three elves' surprise, Esgal rolled his eyes. "I told you, I asked Glorfindel not to speak about me. Although apparently my adventures are entertaining enough that he would tell them to a child...""Wait." Elladan interrupted. "You are the Hidden Guardian? And you know Glorfindel? And he never told us or Ada?" The older twin had a flabbergasted expression on his face. "What did you do that made him willing not to tell Ada?"Legolas shifted on his feet, glancing nervously at Elrohir. "When you were captured by orcs two hundred years ago, it was not Glorfindel that killed them and rescued you. It was me."Elrohir's eyes widened and a smile broke out across his face. "I knew that Glorfindel was hiding something!" he said triumphantly.The assassin smiled hesitantly back at him. A moment later he stiffened, his instincts screaming at him to hide. He sensed riders approaching, the bright presences of elves blurring together as they rode in a tight group. The others' reactions were opposite to the secretive elf's."Ada is coming," Elrohir reported, not noticing Esgal's sudden unease. The younger twin grinned at Aragorn. "I wonder if he'll go through with his threats this time and lock you away in a tower."Aragorn huffed and was about to reply when he noticed Esgal's panicked expression. "Are you all right?" he asked, voice tinged with concern. He placed a hand on the elf's shoulder.Legolas found himself mute, unable to speak as his flight instinct grew stronger with every passing second. Before he could attempt to reply or act on that instinct, the party of elves rode into the clearing. The group included Thranduil, Elrond, Glorfindel, Amulug, and a few of the warriors of Mirkwood."Estel!" Lord Elrond said, dismounting with a pack of healing herbs in tow and rushing over to his adoptive son.Aragorn swiftly backed away. "I'm fine, Adar. Really. Elrohir already checked me over."As Elrond ignored his son and searched him for wounds, Legolas remained motionless, trapped beneath the gazes of many of the elves, all of whom were wondering who the cloaked one hovering near the edge of the woods was. The elf's instincts were wailing at him so greatly he almost did not notice as the many of the elves' expressions turned from confusion to shock to guarded wariness before him. His attention was on the threat he could sense nearby.It was so close could pinpoint it.Legolas's eyes moved over the elves, separating their presences and inspecting them each individually. The bright, familiar presence almost distracted him but he moved on, intent of finding the threat. His eyes landed on the lone warrior in Rivendell colors and his senses shrieked in warning. Then the feeling of panic vanished completely, as if it knew that its warning was useless now. But Legolas could sense what he had been unconsciously hiding from.Deep in the warrior's core, tarnishing his spirit and soul, was Darkness so black and empty that it was practically a void. The assassin could tell that it was not a creation of the warrior, and only partially a part of him. It was something else, a separate being, like a parasite attached to a host. The warrior still glowed and showed no external signs of the Darkness, but the violet-eyed elf could sense his tainted energy, as rancid and repulsive as rotting meat. How could the elves not sense this evil in their companion?"Esgal."The sound of his name pulled Legolas from his disgust and horror. He calmed, focusing on what was going on around him once more. Aragorn was still being fussed over by Elrond and now Glorfindel as well, the twins observing in amusement. The Mirkwood warriors and Amulug, however, were watching the stranger in their midst warily. Legolas met their gazes levelly, resisting the urge to openly glare or growl at the Shadowed Elf. The assassin blinked twice, pushing all thoughts of Amulug from his mind, and looked at the one that had spoken, and almost reeled in shock.He knew the elf that stood beside Fael— knew and remembered him from the Battle of the Five Armies, and knew but still forgot him from before. The golden hair and blue eyes were still sharp and recognizable, even when the elf was not covered in orc blood and in the garb of a King rather than a warrior. He was the elf the assassin had saved in the Battle. He was the one that Legoals knew but could not remember how. But the assassin recognized the elf in front of him in a different way, without even having to be introduced. Legolas could not believe it. He had saved the life of the Elvenking.Like they had many years ago, violet eyes met blue. Both elves felt a connection between them, a deep knowledge that they should know each other more than they thought they did. Each recognized the other but also did not, but their confusion and frustration— They could not figure out how they knew the other— remained hidden behind masks of serenity. Both were unable and unwilling to speak of this feeling, and so it festered, straining between them but failing to truly reach them both. Esgal and the Elvenking looked at each other, neither recognizing them for who they really were."You are the one that saved my life in the Battle," Thanduil stated, studying him intently with Fael at his side."Yes, my Lord, though I was unaware that it was you." Legolas responded, the words feeling odd on his tongue. My Lord? He should not be calling the Elvenking "My Lord". Thranduil was called...He did not know."Well, it is nice that we are properly being introduced at last," Thranduil replied, even as the bond he felt with the other rebelled against the formality in his voice.The Elvenking was bewildered by his own feelings, just like he had been the last time he had seen Esgal. Esgal. Hidden. What an odd name for an elf. Yet that had been the name that the elf had given Fael, who in turn had told Thranduil when his father had inquired about the elf who stayed at the edge of the trees and studied them in silence.Thranduil only felt more conflicted now that he had seen his mysterious savior's features. The first thing he had noticed were the bright violet eyes. The second thing had been his hair. He had pale blonde hair. Hair that was so blonde it was almost white. Hair that was the exact shade the Legolas's had been.It was not only because of the unexplainable connection that Thranduil stared at Esgal. He took in the elf's features in careful detail. The hair was right. The eyes were wrong. The face shape? The nose? The mouth? Were they right? It was so hard to tell, between and elfling and an adult—Thranduil realized what he was doing and broke eye contact with Esgal, cursing himself. What was he doing, looking for similarities between this elf and the Lost Prince?Stop that, the Elveking ordered himself sternly. He cannot be Legolas. If he were, why would he tell us his name is Esgal? Why wouldn't he recognize me and his family? Besides, his eyes are violet, not the silver-blue of my wife and son. I need to stop this. I cannot let myself grasp at empty air. Legolas is dead. Ai Valar! I thought that I had let go long ago...But apparently, snippets of hope lingered. Curse his heart for being so desperate. Thranduil expected himself to be angry at Esgal for reminding him of his son, but all he felt was lingering sadness and bewilderment. The warriors, seeing their King's acceptance of the elf, relaxed, though Amulug remained unfriendly. However, all of them were staring at Legolas, making him uncomfortable.A hand landed on the violet-eyed elf's shoulder and he looked up at Glorfindel, who smiled at him. "Thank you for keeping Estel from hurting himself on the way here." he said lightly. "Lord Elrond and I were quite worried about him. He likes to fall off of things, you know.""I resent that!" the human said loudly.Fael covered up a laugh with a snort,moving to stand beside the Ranger. "From what the twins have told me in the hours since they arrived, you attract trouble like moths to a flame."A few of the elves laughed at Aragorn's expense as the two began to argue good-naturedly, and, just like that, all attention was drawn away from Legolas.He had never felt more relieved.Glorfindel spoke quietly to the violet-eyed elf beside him. "I see that you finally decided to show yourself.""Yes." Legolas murmured. "I did not plan on it though."The Balrog Slayer heard the tightness in his tone. His brow furrowed in concern. "Are you all right?"The assassin's gaze moved back to Amulug, who was still staring at him with dark eyes. "I am and am not. I will explain later" he said softly.It was then that he felt it.Another presence of evil was close by, so small that it was masked by the vileness of Amulug's Shadow. It could easily be mistaken for the aura of an animal, if it did not reek of evil and Darkness. Because this presence was not small, not really. It was merely hiding itself, not aiming for invisibility physically but through the senses, keeping elves like Elrohir from detecting his presence. It was a special technique from the East, used by Legolas himself almost constantly and much more efficiently.It was a technique used by assassins.The elf was moving before the thought fully registered, leaping for the Elvenking,"NO!" he shouted, shoving Thranduil aside.Both toppled to the ground, the arrow missing its target. It flew harmlessly into the trees. Ignoring the startled shouts around him, the elven assassin did not even pause, let a throwing knife drop into his left palm. His arm whipped forward and he released the weapon, the knife flying into the forest. There was a sharp gasp followed by a low thud and the Wood Elf knew he had hit his mark. He felt the assassin's life energy flicker before extinguishing, a void of black appearing where his soul had once resided.There was a beat of silence before Legolas spoke. "Don't just stand there! Make sure he's dead!"A few of the warriors broke out of their stupor and ran into the foliage."He is dead!" one of them called, returning to the clearing and staring at Legolas with awe. "That knife you threw hit him right in the forehead."As the pale blonde-haired elf acknowledged his words with a nod, Thranduil sat up, wincing slightly and with a startled look on his face. His two sons— one of whom remained hidden from him— helped him to his feet. The Elvenking's robes had twigs and leaves stuck to them but he was not harmed from Esgal's life-saving shove."Are you all right, Ada?" Fael asked worriedly, just to make sure. From his vantage point, he had been unable to see if the arrow had nicked his father as if flew past, and he needed reassurance that his father had indeed avoided all injury."I'm fine." the Sindar assured the Prince, and turned to the violet-eyed elf beside him. "That's the second time you have saved my life, Esgal. Thank you.""If I had been thinking I wouldn't have had to," Legolas said, disgusted with himself. "I should have known that the Witch-King would send two assassins after you. The one Estel and I encountered was that one's backup.""Assassins?" Elladan shouted, picking up on the one word. "You fought assassins on the way here?"Legolas looked up to see everyone's eyes on him. He froze, a wide-eyed deer look coming over his face. He was not used to being the center of attention for so many people, and most definitely not so many strangers. A hand landed on his shoulder, squeezing it gently and the assassin looked up, meeting Glorfindel's calm blue eyes. He relaxed, more at ease now that the Balrog Slayer had his back."For difficult targets, it is protocol to send two assassins to do the job," he explained hesitantly. "The assassin I just killed was meant to assassinate Elvenking Thranduil using a long range strike, and... the assassin Estel and I encountered was meant to kill you if the first one failed." The assassin looked at the silent Elvenking, nervous and wary once more. "That is why I came back to Mirkwood in the first place, to warn you about the assassins. I met Estel on the way and we found the other assassin's trail so..."He trailed off, frozen and silent once more. Elrond's family, the Mirkwood Royals, and Glorfindel were still calm and listening intently, but the warriors and Amulug were looking upon him with hostile suspicion. Legolas felt movement at his right and turned to see Aragorn standing beside him, the human silently showing the elf his support. A moment later the twins were next to their brother and Fael moved to Esgal's left side, all silently glaring back at the elves. Some of them dropped their gazes nervously, quailing against the angry stares, but others continued to eye him like he was an orc in their midst. Then Thranduil stepped forward, a serious expression on his face."This is not the time or place for explanations. I say we all return to the palace, then move on from there." the Elvenking suggested smoothly, turning to Legolas. "For now, I just want to thank you for saving my life and helping us fight against the Shadow all these years. I am glad that you have decided to reveal yourself to us at last, Guardian of Mirkwood."A few of the wiser warriors put the pieces together, eyes' brightening as they realized who the strange elf was. They no longer looked upon Esgal with suspicion, but respect and gratitude. Even the ones still in the dark relaxed as their King accepted the elf with no glow. If the Elvenking thought he was on their side, then they would follow by his example. Thranduil offered his hand, and Legolas took it, smiling slightly, and gave it a small shake.The unexplainable connection he felt with the Elvenking and the Prince lingered at the back of his mind, and refused to leave.LOTRLOTRLOTR"What is this?" Saruman hissed, glaring at his blank palantir.After the orcs' failure to capture one of the sons of Elrond, and their consequent deaths many years ago, Saruman had taken to observing any missions that he could. Using the Shadows inside vengeful elves, the White Wizard and the Witch-King could see into the Ring-protected realms without the elves noticing. They used the elves' own sight to spy on their enemies, only slight Darkness showing through their gaze.The Witch-King had introduced this spell to Saruman not long ago, and the Istar had been stunned and pleased by the potency of Dark magic at his disposal. Unlike with many other spells, this spell used the Darkness inside the elves rather than Saruman's staff and energy. This allowed it to be used more often, and with little risk of a backfire. That was why the White Wizard had been so shocked when the scrying spell failed.Saruman had tried to spy on the Elvenking through one of the most Shadowed elves, Amulug, to see if the assassins the Witch-King had sent had succeeded in assassinating Thranduil. Instead, he saw nothing but blackness. Saruman knew that Amulug had been with the Elvenking. He had seen them riding through the woods through the Shadowed Elf's eyes. But for some reason, the Wizard had been blind during the assassination attempt.One moment the corrupt Istar was spying on Thranduil and the others as they rode. The next instant, blackness had slammed over Saruman's vision with such force that the backlash had sent the Wizard flying. Saruman could only think of one reason why his Sight was failing: Someone was blocking his power.It was easy to stop Light magic from being used to scry into Dark places. All someone had to do was encompass an area in Darkness. This technique was used by the Witch-King to stop the likes of Galadriel from seeing into Minas Morgul. However, blocking Dark magic from seeing Light areas was much harder. Dark magic was inherently stronger than Light magic— especially now that the Shadow was growing so strong— so the use of such magic to stop seers from seeing should have been impossible. But Saruman knew that the power being used was Light. It had to be, because no Darkness would be able to resist the power used by the spell. That left the Istar and the Nazgûl Lord with a serious problem.Saruman let his hand hover over the palantir, closing his eyes as the black orb glowed with magic. "Witch-King." he called mentally. "I have discovered a possible threat to us."There was a moment of silence before the Nazgûl answered, voice hissing and raspy in the White Wizard's mind. "What threat do you speak of?""I was observing the elves through a Shadowed Elf's eyes, when someone blocked me from seeing what occurred." The Istar explained. "I became blind when Thranduil and his party entered a part of the forest, seeing nothing but blackness. I was unable to return to see what happened. I am still unable."There was a moment of silence on the Witch-King's end. Then, in a low and angry voice, he spoke. "Someone is hiding the elves from our sight! How is this possible? None can hide from my Master!"Saruman did not inform the Ringwraith that that was what he just said, and kept his annoyance that the Ringwraith had double-checked before believing the Wizard to himself. As the Nazgul's anger grew, the Istar began to become aware of something hidden at the back of the other's mind. Along with the Witch-King, he sensed something else listening in on their conversation.It was a distant Darkness at the back of the Nazgûl's mind, but so deep and evil that the Wizard found himself unwilling to let his mind near it. He instinctively knew that whatever it was was what allowed the scrying spell to work, and had created the Shadows inside the elves like Amulug. Saruman had never felt such Darkness before, and the presence of it chilled him. He had never noticed it lingering in any of his other conversations with the Wtich-King, but now that he was aware it existed, he knew it had always been there. How could he have not noticed before?The Witch-King did not notice his ally's discomfort. "He is too powerful to let live." the Nazgûl growled. "Send the closest orcs to Mirkwood. We must find him, and he must be destroyed!"LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: See why Legolas stayed away from the elves? Saruman and the Witch-King were watching. Now they know someone was shielding/can shield the elves from their sight. And they plan on hunting that person down. BTW: The Witch-King doesn't realize it is Legolas because he doesn't know the extent of the elf's abilities and (unintentional) powers. Legolas doesn't even know what he's doing. Here is what is happening pretty much: Legolas instinctively shields himself from all magic and Sight, using the skills that Ciaran taught him. However, rather than just shielding himself, he accidentally blacks out everything and everyone around him. So instead of letting "Seers" see someone talking to thin air, they see nothing at all. (Remember Galadriel from Elrohir's rescue?)By the way: How did you like my expansion on the Easterlings?Thank you for all of the... (looks up a complementary word in the thesaurus) marvelous reviews! Sorry if I didn't respond to you. Responses to Guest reviews:To "Fishina": Thank you! Trust me, Aragorn is going to be constantly teased about that. :PTo "ethuil": Thanks for reviewing! I'm not quite sure how he did either... All I can say is that he is the (un)luckiest man alive. To "Nightrunner144": Thanks! Sorry, no injuries. I wrote three versions of the part with the second assassin. The first time, Legolas was injured. The second time, Thranduil was wounded. Then I got a new idea for next chapter, and realized I could not hurt either of them if I wanted it to work. So, no injuries this time! There will be injuries later.To "emi": Thank you! Rambling is fun! :D You are correct about him being Esgal to them, not Legolas. You'll have to wait and see how it is revealed. Legolas has heard a couple things about the Lost Prince, but only small rumors and the fact that he died. He does not know the Lost Prince's name and none of the elves talk about the Lost Prince because it still hurts too much. (Plus it would either sadden or piss off the Royal Family if they did... O_O') So yeah, he doesn't know any info that would help him connect the dots. You saw what happened with the assassin. You'll see more of Amulug next chapter. It is not going to be a pretty encounter... The twins will eventually realize he is Brian, yes. He had his hood down when he walked out this chapter so they haven't made the connection yet. You'll see more elf reactions to the no-glow later. I like questions so keep on asking them if you want to! :DTo "TiTaN": Thank you! Count down the days until "Today/The Present"... many big things happen. ;)To "Phoebe": Thanks! There was the meeting. Even though they didn't recognize each other... Stubborn elves. To "FalenOfTheForest": Thanks for reviewing! To "Naomi": Thank you!Please review!


********** Page 16 **********

Chapter Fifteen: Lose Yourself to DarknessThird Age 2956 (55 years ago...)Legolas decided that he hated welcoming feasts. And parties. And celebrations of any kind. There were too many people, all of whom were too loud, and many of whom were nosy, inquisitive, irritating beings that were always staring at him. Now that Aragorn had been found, a formal feast had been thrown together to welcome Elrond and his party to Mirkwood. Along with it, the formal introduction of Estel, Son of Elrond to the Royal Family and the Council had occurred, most of the elves welcoming the man. "Esgal" had also been formally introduced, dressed in formal clothes that Fael had let him borrow to the formal party.Legolas hated formal. He hated parties. He hated being stuck inside a room filled with people, forced to make small talk with elves that approached him. He hated being faced with the same reactions to him and questions being asked again and again. The elf would be shocked that he did not glow. They would freeze as they saw his violet eyes. They would be surprised that he had saved the Elvenking not once, but twice, and was also the mysterious warrior and protector that had been killing orcs for so long."Why don't you glow?" they would ask. "Why are your eyes violet?" "Are you really the Guardian?" "Why did you hide yourself?", and so on.Deciding that some of the answers were none of their damn business, Legolas would respond with half-truths and vague answers. He was suppressing his glow. He had had violet eyes as long as he remembered, so there. Yes, he was the Guardian... Idiots. He would never answer the last one at all, avoiding doing so completely and only staring at the moron who asked with narrowed violet eyes until they left him alone.The questions and responses became so repetitive that he was ready to bash his head against a wall. Or chuck a knife at the next person who asked. But Ciaran had taught him patience, so the assassin endured. Still, his patience was wearing dangerously thin, and he found himself fingering the knives he had hidden beneath the borrowed formal clothes more than once. He did not like the silky emerald green tunic and leggings that Fael had given him. He missed his own clothes, cloak, and face mask. At least he had been allowed to keep his boots, though Princess Hannel— who was apparently visiting from Lothlorien— had frowned at his choice of footwear.The Royal Family's views on Esgal were mixed. Fael, Thranduil, Megilag, and Barhad accepted him openly, trusting him immediately because he had saved the Elvenking and had fought for the Light from the shadows for years. Aglar, Hannel, and Bereneth remained wary. The Crown Prince and the oldest Princess hid their suspicion well, but Legolas could see their tension and aversion. Bereneth openly glared at him whenever he thought he would not notice. He did not need to be a mind reader to know their thoughts.He has no glow. He is unnatural. He is dangerous. He killed all of those orcs. He is deadly. We do not know where he is from. He is an enigma. He is suspicious. How can we trust him? It was the thoughts of many elves from the Shadow-touched Woodland realm. While many were willing to trust their Elvenking's judgment, others would not accept such a powerful ally. Esgal was too secretive, too different, too deadly for them to trust him yet.The elves' opinions of him did not matter to Legolas though, and he was not about to go out of his way to make every elf in Mirkwood like him. He was happy enough with the approval of Fael, Thranduil, Megilag, Barhad, Elladan, Elrohir, Elrond, and Erestor from Rivendell. These elves, who he had heard about from Glorfindel and interacted with, accepted him despite his uniqueness and skills.Along with Aragorn, the violet-eyed elf had somehow begun a friendship with the twins and Fael. One moment they had just met, the next Legolas found himself comfortable and content to talk and laugh with all four of them. For an unknown reason, the assassin found himself staying closest to Fael and siding with him on many discussions against the twins. Perhaps it was because Fael was being ganged up on by the two of them, or because they both were from Mirkwood, but Legolas felt closer and more trusting of the silver-haired Prince.At the same time, the rejection of the two Princesses and Crown Prince hurt the pale blonde-haired elf deeply. He did not understand it. He did not care about what many elves and strangers thought of him, but their shunning made almost physical pain shoot through Legolas's heart. Why should their opinions affect him so much?Legolas groaned mentally as another inquisitive elf approached him, an elleth this time. He had quickly learned to be on guard around them. Few that were at the party were warriors, and most were interested in flirting. Legolas was most certainly not interested. He did not care about love, and would continue to not for a long time. He was immortal. He had plenty of time to search for a mate later if he ever became interested, long after the Shadow was destroyed. Right now, a elleth's attempts only made him internally cringe.These elleth did not know him, which led to two reasons for their interest: his looks or his reputation. The violet-eyed elf knew that he was handsome and beautiful, as all Eldar are, but also knew that his unique features and "mysteriousness" would attract the opposite sex like flies. He hated that they were interested only because of his looks and the stories told about him, not because of who he was and his personality. It sickened him, especially with being brought up by tales of Eithne and Ciaran's love. They were life-mates, not a sudden infatuation based on appearance and legend.Tired of it all, Legolas pretended not to see the elleth approaching him and turned around, walking purposely towards the door. Formality or not, if he had to deal with one more idiot he was going to throw a dagger at someone. Preferably the idiot. Why was he even here anyway?Oh, right. Apparently the party was to welcome all guests, including him.Formalities sucked."Are you ready to jump off a cliff yet?" a voice asked teasingly in his ear.Legolas turned and glared at Fael, not impressed by his joke. "No, but I swear that I'm going to kill the next moron that tries to talk to me.""They're not all idiots," the Prince mock-protested. "They're just a little... lacking in the warrior-mindset department.""They are Councilors, the nobles of this realm." the assassin stated. "Scholars and strategists for the most part, with only a few having taken part in war or battle. Either that or their new posts have made them forget what it was like to truly fight the Shadow." He gave the Prince a helpless look. "How can they not understand I do not wish to speak about my past?"The silver-haired elf winced. "Everyone wants to know a good story. Only the warriors and those who truly face the Shadow truly know what it and its servants are like. You are a puzzle people want to solve.""They had better be careful then," Legolas said darkly. "My pieces will cut them if they are not."He spotted the elleth walking towards him again and groaned.Fael snickered in an un-Princely manner. "I see that you are having trouble with the maidens as well.""They're like wolves. They've been stalking me all night." the assassin muttered. "I meant my threat about the next fool that tries to talk to or flirt with me and I would rather not cause an incident. I'm out of here."Fael chuckled as he watched the violet-eyed elf make a hasty retreat, leaving so quickly it was like he vanished out of thin air. The silver-haired elf glanced at the elleth and froze as his green orbs met determined brown eyes. Apparently, after seeing her original target leave, the elleth had picked a new ellon to bother. Him.With the dignity of a Prince and the gracefulness of the Eldar, Fael fled out the door after the assassin.LOTRLOTRLOTRAglar watched his brother follow Esgal, and could not stop the worry that came as Fael followed the mysterious elf alone. The Crown Prince knew that the silver-haired elf trusted the other and could take care of himself, but Aglar still tensed at the thought of his brother being with the stranger. He could not follow them, however. As Crown Prince, he had to stay at the gathering, exchanging niceties with the guests and playing the part of the Elvenking's Heir. That had not stopped him from observing the people around him, keeping his eye on his siblings as they spread out among the other elves.Hannel was with her husband, Lachon, sitting at the table and smiling delicately as Barhad softly told her a recent discovery he had made while scouring the archives. Megilag was near one wall, flirting with a few elleth for the first time in years. Aglar did not know what had brightened his brother's spirits, but the silver-gold haired elf seemed happier and more relaxed than he had been in years. Bereneth was speaking animatedly with Tollui while glaring warningly at any ellon that started to approach her. She, unlike the males, could get away with punching those who flirted with her, and she knew it. The male elves knew it as well and kept their distance. Fael was now gone, following the elf that Aglar found that he could not trust."What is troubling you, ion-in?" Thranduil asked, noticing his son's posture."Fael just left," the Crown Princed reported. "He was following Esgal.""Oh?" the Elvenking laughed, looking at the many disappointed elleth with amusement. "I think that I know why they have abandoned this gathering.""...Are you sure we should trust Esgal?" Aglar murmured, an edge in his tone.Thranduil looked at his son. "Why shouldn't we? He saved my life and is a solid ally in our fight against the Shadow."The Crown Prince shifted on his feet. "He is also an enigma and a loose cannon, Adar."The Elvenking frowned at Aglar. "Is he?""He is dangerous," the silver-haired elf stressed."Aren't we all?" Thranduil asked mildly."He's an assassin," Aglar hissed at last, deciding to be blunt. "You saw yourself how efficiently he killed the human assassin that tried to kill you. I have read the warriors' reports. Esgal has no past loyalties, many unnatural skills and powers, and has a past that he is reluctant to share with us."His father's blue eyes pierced him, pinning him in place. ""Unnatural"? Are you suspicious of him because of his eyes and lack of a glow?""Added to how good of a killer he is, yes." Aglar admitted stiffly.Thranduil shook his head sadly, placing a hand on his eldest son's shoulder. "You are only seeing what Esgal can do and what he looks like, not the elf he is inside."There was disappointment in his tone, making Aglar's stomach clench in response. He hated disappointing his father. It reminded him too much of the times he had returned from The Patrol so many years ago. Thranduil was not faded, grieving, or tired now, but he had the same grim look in his eyes. This time the Elvenking was stern, strong, and set in his decision as he looked upon his heir."That's not..." Aglar began but his father interrupted him before he could defend himself."I know that I am not the most accepting elf, but I had hoped you had not gained my suspicious nature. Esgal is not an enemy just because he is unique, deadly, and has secrets. I want you to see that. That being said, I expect you to get to know Esgal." he said firmly. "Do not judge him for what he has been trained to do or what he looks like. Judge him for who he is."Aglar bit his lip and bowed slightly. "I will try, Adar." he said.Thranduil smiled at him. "Good. Now, enjoy the party, Aglar. Tomorrow you will be stuck in negotiations with me when the dwarves from Erebor arrive with their new ideas for a trading agreement."The Crown Prince spoke with a voice that was almost a whine. "Are you sure there isn't a patrol I could lead instead?"His father smirked at him, blue eyes glinting. "If I have to suffer through the negotiations, you have to suffer with me."Aglar grimaced. "Yes, Adar."LOTRLOTRLOTREsgal sat up in a tree just outside the gate, leaning back against the bark with Fael at his side. The twins were a couple branches lower, and Aragorn was below them. The five were chattering about nothing, just relieved to be outside and away from the hustle and bustle of the palace and the party. The four elves claimed that they had left for peace and quiet— which the Ranger suspected was at least partly true for the assassin— but Aragorn knew for a fact that the twins had been targeted by the daughters of the Councilors and other elves at the party. The man had been greatly amused when the twins had bade a hasty retreat out of the room, meeting with Esgal and Fael outside.Now all five were outside the palace, just inside the forest as the day slowly turned into night. Elrohir and Elladan began a competition of who could name more constellations and stars than the other. The other three watched them with amusement as they grew increasingly animated, squabbling with each other as they began to repeat old answers."I already said that one!" Elrohir accused, glaring at the older twin."You did not." Elladan defended. "I would have remembered if you did.""You're cheating because I am winning," the younger twin said with a sniff."Am not!" the elder protested, tackling his brother.Other races would have been horrified by the move being used so far up from the ground, but for elves there was no risk of falling. The still-Light tree holding the elves would not let them fall, laughing softly in their ears as the two older brothers tussled in its boughs. Aragorn and Fael guffawed with it, while Esgal chuckled quietly above them. The assassin— much more at ease out here than he had been inside the palace— dropped down next to Aragorn, peering up at the play-fighting elves."Do they always act like this?" he asked curiously as Elrohir succeeded in pinning his brother down on the tree limb. Elladan retaliated by tickling the younger, making him yelp and release him."Yes." the Ranger and Fael chorused in matching exasperated tones.Hearing this, the twins paused, turning to stare at the two."Don't act all innocent," Elladan huffed. "You're just as bad at home, Estel.""And you helped us replace Erestor's meeting-minute scrolls with tips on how to get an elleth when you came to Rivendell, Fael." Elrohir added triumphantly."Since I have been away from your terrible influence, I have matured." the Prince said coolly but his green eyes sparkled."I'm only twenty-five. What's your excuse?" the Ranger said.The twins slowly looked at each other, and identical evil grins appeared on their faces. "Get them!" they shouted, leaping at the two.Aragorn gave an undignified squawk and retreated to the ground, while Fael squeaked and fled further up the tree. The twins ganged up on the Prince, holding him down and tickling him."Look, he laughs like an elfling!" Elladan said with a smirk. "And you call yourself a big elf.""S-Stop that!" Fael gasped between laughs, mirthful tears running down his cheeks. "Ha ha! Esgal, h-help!"The violet-eyed elf looked lazily up at the twins and their "captive". "Please let Fael go." he said casually."Or what?" Elrohir challenged.Esgal idly brushed a strand of hair behind his pointed ear. "If you do not, I will sneak into your rooms, put honey in your eyebrows, write "dunce" on your foreheads, replace all of your clothes with maidens' dresses, and dye your hair a beautiful shade of petunia pink, all while you sleep."The twins froze, staring at him."You wouldn't." Elladan said slowly. "And couldn't. We'll be on our guard now."Esgal gave him a deadpan look. "I have snuck into Rivendell, Lothlorien, Edoras, Minas Tirith, and some of the most Shadowed or most heavily guarded places in the world. I'm pretty sure that I could manage to do all of that without you noticing."His four friends balked, gazing at him with wide eyes. However, it was not the assassin's threat of a prank that stunned them."Have you really gotten into those cities without being seen?" Aragorn asked the elf.Esgal nodded, still casual though slightly confused, as if he did not understand how that was special. "Of course I have."They continued to stare. The pale blonde-haired elf shifted beneath their intense eyes. Then the twins turned and looked at each other, a message passing between them. Two sets of identical silver eyes fell on Esgal once more, blazing and glittering almost maniacally."Esgal..." Elladan said solemnly, a glint in his eyes and a sinister grin on his face. "Can we use your skills for our own amusement and evil purposes?""Oh, no no no." Fael interrupted before the assassin could answer. "If he is going to be on anyone's side in a prank war it is going to be mine! I am all by myself against you three." He pointed at the three sons of Elrond dramatically then winked at Esgal. "Besides, we Mirkwood elves need to stick together."Esgal smiled back at him, a full grin that revealed his pearly white teeth. Then his smile vanished and he looked down, violet eyes narrowing. Aragorn recognized the expression on the assassin's face."What's coming?" he asked urgently, wishing he had thought to bring his weapons with him. But of course, his bow, swords, and dagger had all been left in his room for the party."It is not an enemy that comes," Esgal reported quickly, dropping down next to the man. "It is just... Amulug."He said the name neutrally, but alarm bells went off in the Ranger's head. Elrohir, Elladan, and Fael descended to the ground as well, all looking in the same direction as the assassin. A moment later Amulug emerged from the foliage, scowling and angry-looking as was his norm. He glared particularly at Aragorn, eyes narrowed and lips thin with dislike. The feeling was mutual."So this is where you ran off to?" the elf said coldly. "I had hoped that Lord Elrond taught you some basic protocol and manners." He continued to glare at the man like everything was his fault."We are out here as well, Amulug," Elladan pointed out calmly, expression neutral. "It was not just Estel that left the welcoming party.""I can assure you that my family is not offended by their absence," Fael added with a smile that had to be fake.The warrior ignored them, still glowering at Aragorn.Suddenly he lashed out, hand wrapping around the man's wrist. The Ranger grunted in pain as the elf's strong grip tightened threateningly. He knew that a small twist would be enough to break his bone. His elven companions froze, realizing the same thing. Amulug glared at him with furious hazel eyes, close enough that the man could see flecks of blue and green in the midst of the brownish orbs."You are weak, Aragorn, Son of Arathorn." he spat, not acknowledging the three glowing elves as they stiffened. "It is the corruption of your race that allows the Shadow to plague this land. How dare Elrond shelter filth like you, a mortal whose ancestor is the reason Darkness exists in this world!"Aragorn was struck mute, eyes wide with horror as the elf snarled the name that was not safe, that could not be spoken aloud, not even here so close to the palace. Fael and the twins were also shocked and alarmed, but were unable to act with the Ranger still in Amulug's grasp. Only Esgal was calm and unsurprised, regarding the angry elf with calculating violet eyes."Amulug." the assassin spoke the warrior's name, gaining his attention. "Let him go, please."His voice was soft, calm, and pleasant, and his expression was blank and empty, as if he were merely asking the elf to pass him the sugar. But Aragorn could hear something in his tone, something more dangerous and deadly than a warg's growl. Amulug's sharp elven hearing must have been failing him because he did not heed the subtle threat in Esgal's tone.Instead he sneered at the violet-eyed elf, and challenged him. "Make me."Quick as a blink Esgal struck, gripping Amulug's hand between his finger and thumb. The other elf gave a gasp of pain, his other hand losing its hold on Aragorn's arm as agony shot through his left arm, into his torso. Still standing, the elf curled up slightly, eyes wide and mouth open in mute torment.The assassin's expression had not changed, remaining scarily neutral. He did not speak, holding the pressure point for a moment longer in silent warning. Then he released Amulug and the elf stumbled back, cradling his hand. There was not even a bruise on his skin. The warrior flexed his fingers, glaring at Esgal.Then his hate-filled gaze returned to Aragorn and his lips drew back in a snarl. For a moment the man was sure that the elf was going to attack him once more. But Amulug only spat at him, before turning on his heel and storming away, back towards the palace.Esgal watched him go, waiting until he disappeared in the trees before speaking. "Delorcion.""How did you do that?" Fael questioned, impressed."A pressure point," the assassin replied. He turned to Aragorn. "Are you all right?""Yes..." the man said, pulling up his sleeve to reveal a bruised wrist.Elrohir winced and gently took the appendage, probing carefully around the spot. "Its merely bruised, not strained or fractured." A scowl crossed his face. "I'm going to kill that Delorcion, or at least get Ada to kick him out. Not only did he hurt you but he also—" He stopped abruptly, looking nervously at Esgal. "Ah...""I won't tell anyone about Estel's heritage," the elf reassured them all, truly calm once more now that Amulug was away.Elladan nodded shortly, hovering at Aragorn's right elbow. "Let's get back to the palace. We need to tell Ada about this."With that mission in mind, they returned to the palace, only to discover that the party was over and the guests were headed home. After questioning a few elves, they tracked down Elrond to be with Thranduil in the King's study. Fael led the way to a simple oak door in the center of the palace. The Prince knocked three times, waiting until a voice called "Enter!" before walking into the room with the others. Thranduil. Elrond, Glorfindel, and Erestor were all leaning over a document, the half-elven Elf Lord pointing something out on the page. Glorfindel grinned cheerfully at them."I was wondering where you troublemakers ran off to. Have you caused any havoc yet?""No." Elladan said grimly, no joking in his tone. "Amulug just attacked Estel."That caught their attention faster than the word of any pranks could."What?!" Elrond snarled, the dangerous expression he wore only when one of his children was threatened darkening the usually serene Lord's aura.Elladan explained the encounter in short, sharp sentences, the Elf Lord checking over Aragorn's wrist while his eldest son spoke. The elves reacted with a mixture of anger, disgust, shock, and horror. It was Elrond's reaction that was the most severe, however. The Elf Lord was not angry. He was livid, silver eyes blazing with rage and his hands were clenched so tightly the knuckles were white. It was the rare times like these that Aragorn spotted Elrond, the warrior who fought in the Last Alliance of Men and Elves instead of the calm, serene, healing Elf Lord he was used to. The Peredhel looked ready to take up his sword and slaughter Amulug— not that the man would complain if he did."This is the last straw!" Elrond growled, fist slamming down on the desktop and making half the people in the room jump. "If Amulug thinks he would be able to get away with attacking my son, he is about to get a wake up call!"He stormed out of the study like an angel of death, presence so filled with fury and barely contained rage that any elves he encountered in the hall fled before his wrath. The other elves and one man followed the Elf Lord as he tracked down the object of his ire. Amulug was with Rainor and Uilos in the garden when Elrond found him.The two not-Shadowed warriors noticed their angered Lord first and both leapt to their feet, paling as if Sauron himself had found them as they gauged the silver-eyed elf's mood. Amulug, on the other hand, looked up lazily, an unconcerned expression on his face. The cold warrior froze as his eyes met Elrond's deadly ones. Aragorn saw him swallow reflexively."My Lord—""Did you honestly think I would let this go?" the Peredhel began without preamble, voice livid and cold. "Did you honestly believe that I would ignore the fact that you attacked my son?"Said son saw shocked, horrified, and angry expressions form on Rainor and Uilos's faces. It was obvious they did not know about the other's deeds, and were disgusted and stunned by them. Meanwhile, Amulug seemed to lose his fear, a calculating and emotionless mask covering his features. He stared at Elrond levelly."Explain your actions!" the Elf Lord commanded.Amulug's gaze darkened. "I shouldn't have to defend myself. My actions were justified."Aragorn swore that his father was going to throttle the other elf. But Elrond kept his distance, hands twitching the slightest bit as if he were holding back from striking the warrior. "Please tell me how you assaulting my son was "justified"." If a person's tone alone could kill, Amulug would already be in Mandos's Halls.The warrior's barely-kept front shattered, his mask falling to reveal an expression that defined unrelenting rage. Despite himself Aragorn flinched away from the elf, the look twisting his features making him seem like a demented, distorted monster. It was almost like looking at an orc in an elf's pale, glowing skin."Isildur is the reason the One Ring still exists and Sauron still haunts this land!" Amulug spat. "He is the reason orcs still exist, and why they existed to kill my family! And yet you think that Aragorn will resist the corruption of his race and save Middle-earth." With each word the warrior grew more angry, more and more hatred making his voice animal-like snarl. "You are a fool! You call him the Hope of Men, but I know that he will fail and fall, just like his ancestors! He won't lead us to salvation. He will destroy everything!"Elrond did not shrink away as the elf yelled in his face, keeping a stoic, impassive mask in place. But when he spoke, his voice held nothing but contempt. "You disgust me. You claim that men are corrupt, yet you lash out like an animal with misplaced blame and vengeance on Aragorn and the race of Man in general. You think that elves are superior to humans, and yet you have fallen so far. Ever since your family passed, you have been reckless, selfish, and a danger to all around you. You disobeyed orders, attacked human settlements, and forced your allies into situations that have gotten many injured or killed. Again and again I passed off your actions as grief-driven and let you go with only a reprimand, but my tolerance has reached its end."Elrond stood tall and proud before his warrior, eyes unforgiving and icy. "You hurt my son and revealed information that not only puts him, but all of Rivendell at risk. This crime is one I will never forgive. To attack one's Lord or his family and knowingly endanger their lives and my realm is treason. You know the punishment for treason."Amulug paled slightly and moved as if to speak, but the Lord of Imladris did not let him."Amulug of Imladris, I hereby banish you from Rivendell and all other elven realms." Elrond stated, the image of an Elven Lord. Cold, uncaring, distant, apathetic, regal, icy.Aragorn was shocked but not surprised by his father's statement. For immortal elves, exile from all elven realms, from all places they could find their kin, was almost as bad as a death sentence for humans. Forever was a long time for those who had no one to spend it with."If you step foot within any of the realms, for any reason, you will be imprisoned until your immortal life ends." the Peredhel looked down upon the exiled elf with contempt. "You have one day to remove yourself from the elven realm of Mirkwood. I suggest you start walking."For a moment, the Ranger thought that the elf was not going to move. Then the proud warrior spun on his heel, not speaking a word, and stalked to the gates. He paused right under the archway, turning to glare intently at the man. He did not break his silence, but Aragorn could read the message in his eyes.You will pay.As Amulug disappeared into the forest and the elves around him minus Esgal all relaxed. Said elves discussing what had happened in soft voices, Aragorn felt no relief, and a glance at the assassin's narrowed eyes told the Ranger that Esgal was not feeling less worried either.The leader of a group of vengeful, angry elves was now gone from Rivendell, and Aragorn would no longer have to face accusing glares and hate-filled scowls every day. He should be happy. But he was not. Somehow, deep in his heart, the man knew that he would run into Amulug again. The confrontation was not going to be a happy one. In fact, he had a feeling it was going to be quite bloody.Vengeful elves never forgot.And they never forgave.LOTRLOTRLOTRHe was shocked. He was confused. But most of all, Amulug, exiled elf formerly from Rivendell, was enraged.How dare Elrond cast him out. How dare that miserable Half-elf banish him, exile him because he attacked the Lord's precious son. Son. How any elf could see a weak Man as a son was beyond Amulug. His lip curled in disgust at the mere thought of being attached to a mortal at all. Still, Elrond had put the importance of that short-lived, weak, pathetic human over him, a warrior and proud immortal of Rivendell.He had fought in the Last Alliance many centuries ago. He had gone with his family to Imladris afterward in the hope of starting a new life. He had remained loyal to his Lord and realm. Yet Elrond had the gall to cast him aside like trash, just because he "attacked" Aragorn. Aragorn, Son of Arathorn, Heir of Isildur.Amulug knew that his "unprovoked attack" was justified. It was Isildur's fault that the One Ring was not destroyed. It was that stupid man's greed that caused the Shadow and Sauron to plague and slowly suffocate Middle-earth. Even being raised by elves would not help Aragorn resist the weakness of his ancestry and race.Aragorn would fail. He would not defeat Sauron. He would either come across the Ring and give it back to the Dark Lord, or he would not be strong enough to overcome the Enemy and his forces. He would die in battle, or be executed, or run away and die as an old man, a failure and alone. The former Rivendell warrior knew this to be true. He knew of the weakness and corruption of man all too well. The Shadow of Sauron would not be defeated or even hindered by one so small and insignificant as a human."Come to me."Amulug halted in his tracks and looked around in bewilderment. He looked around himself, seeing nothing but trees. But he had been sure that there had been a voice..."Come to me." the voice sounded again, dark and soothing, like a cat purring in his mind. "Come to me."The exiled elf blinked rapidly, mind fogging and confusion taking over his thoughts. He knew that voice. He had heard it before. It was familiar, like an old friend, a whisper in the back of his mind..."Come to me." the voice said, gentle, calm, and serene, cool in his mind like liquid shadows.Shadows... Like the Shadow. Like the Darkness, which he hated... Didn't he? Of course he did. The Shadow was evil. The Shadow had killed his family. The Shadow had—"Come to me. Come to me. Come to me."And suddenly Amulug understood. Something flooded into him and his eyes were opened, able to see the world as it truly was. It was not the Shadow's fault that his family had died. It was their own fault. Their fault because they tried to fight the Darkness, because they did not understand. They did not understand the truth....Had he not just been hating the Shadow? No, that could not be right."Come to me." the Darkness commanded.So he came.LOTRLOTRLOTRTranslations:Ada/Adar: Daddy/Dad/FatherDelorcion: BastardA/N: Just so you know, Legolas will be in no relationships. At all. Ever. That is not what this story is about, and it would ruin the character in my opinion. It would not go with his personality and characterization. So don't go looking for romance. There will never be any LegolasXOC, LegolasXCanonCharacter or LegolasXAnybody in this story. EVER! I don't like to write romance anyway. I'm more of an action-mystery-drama-suspense-adventure-fantasy writer. I pretty much write anything except romance, outright humor, horror, and parody.Thank you for all of the wonderful reviews! :)Responses to Guest reviews: (Including a couple I missed from the chapter before. Sorry!)To "KP": Thank you for reviewing!To "SilverNM": Thanks! Antics are fun! :PTo "Avionics jade": Thank you!To "Badass female": Thank you for reviewing! Ironically, I just finished writing this chapter when you reviewed. Huh. No, I'm not doing romance with Legolas. At all. I'm just not a romance writer. I still go "ew" and make disgusted faces when I see someone kissing in a movie. My friends think my reactions are hilarious. :PTo "yue-chan": Thank you! I have writing talent? YAY! Its so nice of you to say that! :D Yeah, Saruman made a big mistake. The evil he is dealing with is a lot worse than he thought...To "Emilz": Thank you! I only have internet Monday and Wednesday, and that is sporatic at best. I usually have the next chapter finished a couple hours after I posted the previous one, but I can't update until I have proper internet access. It sucks. :(To "Laura": Thank you! I'm glad you liked it. :DTo "Issy": Thanks! Don't hit Thranduil! I need him to not be concussed... though I do agree that he deserves a good whack. :PTo "emi": Thank you for reviewing! That was long. Cool! :D Ok... let me try to go in order... Next chapter Radagast should show up. It would be funny if Esgal fled to Erebor because everyone was staring at him! :P The teasing in front of the twins will happen soon. They will know soon. You saw what happened to Amulug. Next chapter you will see about the orcs. I'm not answering if he would tell or not. You'll have to wait to see what happens with that. The major AU begins when the countdown hits "the Present". The Present is actually not that far away. It is in four chapters. Like I said, the elves don't talk about it and don't give details. Their tight-lipped approach keeps people from knowing anything more than that the Lost Prince was "captured and died". Bilbo doesn't know about the Prince other than that. It would be funny if Thorin found out! (cackles) But that's not my plan. ;) Thranduil will know that Legolas is alive eventually. I will not put a riddle for when he reveals himself, sorry (It is too much of a spoiler). ;)To "Guest": Thank you!To "The Readers": Here is the update.To "Wane": Thanks! 


********** Page 17 **********

A/N: I wrote this entire chapter today because I got an idea. I changed my plan and added a bunch of important stuff this chapter, so Radagast's return, the orcs coming to find Legolas, the dwarves' coming to Mirkwood, and a bunch of other stuff has been moved to next chapter. For those of you who asked, this means that Part II will begin in five chapters and "The Present/Today" will be in four. In other words, I added a completely new chapter. :)LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Sixteen: The "Spar"Third Age 2956 (55 years ago...)Early the next day, Legolas found himself headed to Mirkwood's training grounds with Aragorn, Fael, and the twins. More specifically, he was unwillingly being dragged to said training grounds by four determined warriors."I told you, I don't want to train here." the elf protested uncomfortably for the third time. "I don't need to either.""You don't have to train." Fael said stubbornly. "We're not even going there to train. You've been shown every part of the palace and grounds except for where the warriors train. We're just completing your tour. I don't see why you are so against going there."I don't want to go because if any warriors are there, they'll want to see me fight or spar with me, the assassin thought but did not say.While he was glad that he had exposed himself to the elves and saved Thranduil's life, he wished that the warriors had not witnessed or heard about his prior accomplishments in battle. Almost every time he ran into one, they were sizing him up, questioning his abilities, or wanting to test themselves against him.Legolas was only comfortable with sparring with Glorfindel because he knew the other elf would not become angry when he beat him. Many of the warriors that approached him were not asking to spar out of curiosity, but out of an arrogant need to prove themselves by besting the "Hidden Guardian". When Legolas defeated them, some would lash out in anger, or would remain bitter and cold.The assassin did not want to draw attention to himself, and most definitely did not want to have arrogant elves holding a grudge against him. He knew he would defeat the elves that fought him. It was not overconfidence or arrogance that powered this thought, but fact. Ciaran had taught him how to fight and defeat his own kind swiftly, telling the much-younger Legolas the elves' weaknesses, and frequent spars with Glorfindel had kept those skills sharp.When sparring, the assassin had a choice: to draw out the fight or to end it instantly. As an assassin, he was more inclined to end fights quickly unless he was mock-fighting with the Balrog Slayer. With Glorfindel, he used spars to learn. These warriors had no interest in teaching or learning.So that left Legolas with a dilemma. Should he end the fight immediately, and make them angry that they were defeated so fast, or should he draw it out and make them mad that he was not fighting at his best. Then again, his best was killing so no matter what he had to hold back.The violet-eyed elf could not find a way to explain this to his friends however, and reluctantly let himself be dragged to the training grounds. It was early morning, so many of the warriors would be present.Mirkwood's training grounds consisted of a large clearing in the woods. There were specific areas for each kind of weapon and intent. One area was for archers, with targets hanging in the trees. Another was filled with dummies used for basic sword training. The final, open space was intended for sparring with an opponent.Currently, a small bit of that space was occupied by Bereneth and a warrior that Legolas recognized as Lain, the reddish-brown haired warrior that had been injured during the flood so long ago. The two were in the leather armor of their realm, moving about the area that was their sparring ground as their swords clashed. Other warriors stood in a wide circle around them, intent on the fight between the Princess and the ellon."That looks interesting," Elladan said, silver eyes riveted on the spar. "Want to watch?"The others nodded in assent and Legolas's group joined the spectators, staying towards the back but still able to see. The assassin's violet eyes followed the two warriors' movements carefully. As they watched, Bereneth blocked a stab directed towards her torso, stepping forward boldly and attacking Lain with a barrage of blows. Her feet were sturdy and firm on the ground, but she still had the fluent grace of the elves, able to shift from position to position quickly."Are the blades blunted?" Legolas asked Fael.The silver-haired Prince shook his head. "No. After an elf is a warrior for five-hundred years, we fight with sharp weapons. Novices, rookies, and young warriors fight with blunted blades."Legolas watched as Bereneth knocked Lain's defense away, touching the point of her sword to his chest. The warrior nodded, conceding defeat, and a cheer went up from the spectators as they congratulated their Princess. Bereneth accepted their praise with a smile, nodding her thanks as her eyes scanned the ring. Her brown eyes found the assassin in the crowd and he tensed."Esgal!" she called, tone light and cheery. "Would you like to spar?" Her smile was friendly but her eyes were suspicious and cold.The assassin felt a mixture of annoyance, anger, and sadness. When he spoke his tone was calm and soft. "I would rather not, Princess. I don't usually fight in front of such a large group."Bereneth laughed, a laugh that was both mocking and false. "There's no need to be shy, Esgal. I'm sure you'll be fine."All eyes were on him, intense and glaring. The warriors were eager. They wanted to see him fight. They wanted to see how great of a warrior he was. Either that or they wanted Bereneth— their Princess warrior— to defeat him. Legolas's anger was building, but he hid it behind a polite mask."I am dangerous, Princess." he said softly. "I might hurt you." ...Because you are not one to take defeat kindly, especially from me. You will strike out, and I will be forced to retaliate. Please, do not push me."I'm sure I don't have to worry about that." she said dismissively. "It's odd. You almost seem afraid to fight me."A few of the elves sneered at the insult to Esgal's bravery, muttering agreement. Next to the assassin, the twins were livid, Aragorn was glaring at the Princess, and Fael looked shocked. Bereneth had just called Legolas a coward. That was a terrible insult to any warrior.Against the jeers, anger, and shock around him, Legolas was icy calm. Now they were trying to pressure him into fighting. It was either spar or be labeled a coward. Protocol and politeness went out the window and the assassin let all emotion drain from his eyes and expression. He would not let Bereneth goad him into a fight."You show your desperation through your words, Princess," he said coolly. "I will not fight you because you have a need to prove yourself. I fight to protect, to kill, and to learn, not for meaningless entertainment."He turned around and began to walk away, pushing through the crowd of elves.Walk away, Legolas, he told himself. Walk away...The Princess bristled, and spoke with venom dripping from her every word. "I should have known that an elf raised by a cowardly human would be—""What did you just call my father?"A chill went over the training grounds as the assassin spoke in voice more terrifying than a Nazgûl's shriek. It was a hiss that somehow lacked all emotion, so apathetic and cold that it seemed to hold no emotion. And yet there was no denying what Esgal was feeling. The assassin was beyond angry.He turned to glare at Bereneth, who did not quail beneath his glowing violet eyes. The Princess smirked at him."I called him a worthless, miserable coward." she sneered.Legolas closed his eyes, anger rushing through him. Slowly, painfully, he let it go, serene calm rushing in in its place. He must not fight out of anger. Anger was a terrible motive and reason. But he could not walk away. Not now that the Princess had insulted Ciaran. That left one option. The assassin stepped into the ring, staring expressionlessly at Bereneth. The Princess was still smirking. Legolas did not react with ire. He just stared at her."Very well, Princess. I will spar with you. But remember... you brought this upon yourself."Bereneth scoffed and raised her weapon, raising an eyebrow at him. "Aren't you going to draw your knives.""No." he said shortly.She shrugged, uncaring. Lain began the countdown, standing at the edge of the ring. "Three... two... one... Begin!"It happened too fast for even the quickest elves to follow.Before Bereneth could even move she was down, sword skittering across the ground with Esgal standing over her. A single blow to the warrior's solar plexus had sent her to the ground, winded, stunned, and unable to comprehend what had happened. Legolas glared down at her, violet eyes blazing."If you had accepted my declination of the spar with grace, or asked me to be your opponent for reasons other than showing off to your friends, I would have gladly fought with you, warrior to warrior. Instead, you insulted my father— the bravest man I have ever known— and tried to pressure me into sparring with you. Before the spar began you did not even bother to lay down rules. That allowed me to use all of my skills, including my knowledge of pressure points. I am an assassin. I am dangerous. And I am way out of your league." There was no arrogance in the elf's voice, only deadly fact."Despite that, and despite me being the Hidden Guardian, I am not a weapon! I am not a way to test your skills! I am not some experiment you need to poke and prod to see if I react! I am an elf, like you all, and I am sick and tired of idiotic Delorcions trying to bully, use, and abuse me! You do not care about who I am. You only care that I am an assassin and a weapon. You see me as an opponent to defeat and overcome. I don't care if you try to make yourselves great warriors, but don't you dare try to use me to make a name for yourself!"He did not shout, but he may as well have. The elves and Bereneth— who had recovered— were all silent, guilt and shame warring on their faces. Legolas looked up, and his violet eyes were filled with bitter pain. The agony in the violet orbs was so great that the elves and Aragorn had to look away.Then the assassin spoke, and his voice was choked and strained with emotion. "I never should have revealed myself to you."And he ran, vanishing into the trees."Esgal!" Aragorn shouted, starting after the assassin.A hand on his arm stopped him and he looked up to see Glorfindel standing there, eyes dark and expression tense."How much did you see?" Elrohir asked quietly.The Balrog Slayer's face turned even more somber. "Enough." Piercing blue eyes landed on Bereneth and the Vanyar glowered at the Princess. "Words cannot express how disappointed and disgusted I am with you. I will be talking to your father about this!"Everyone flinched at his tone. Never, in all the years they had seen Glorfindel, had they ever seen him that angry with an elf. Orcs yes, but an elf? Never. His voice shook with barely-contained rage and his glow seemed to ripple and expand with his anger. He was not friendly, cheerful Glorfindel, but an Elf Lord who looked ready to strike them down."Glorfindel..." Elrohir began hesitantly."I'm going after him. Stay here." he said flatly.The four that had come with Esgal flinched. The Balrog Slayer's expression softened slightly."I am not angry at you. You four are of the few people here who accept Esgal for who he is. I thank you for that."Without another word the Balrog Slayer ran swiftly into the forest, leaving four worried friends and many ashamed elves behind him. The elves watched him go, before the warriors began to gather in small groups, murmuring softly to each other. Elrohir looked at his twin, Fael, and Aragorn— who was still staring worriedly into the trees."We should go back to the palace."Fael and Elladan nodded in agreement but Aragorn did not respond. They headed down the path to the Elvenking's home, keeping their silence. Elladan finally broke it, his shift from quiet to speaking so fast that Fael flinched."I can't believe those idiots treated Esgal like that!" the older twin spat, fists clenched in rage.Fael looked at the ground, eyes closed tightly. "I am ashamed of my comrades actions. No, ashamed does not even begin to describe how I feel. I don't even want to associate with them... or my sister.""Why would Bereneth act like that?" Elrohir questioned. "I know that she is strong-willed and fiery, but I've never seen her so cold, cruel, and... arrogant.""She doesn't trust Esgal." Fael revealed bitterly. "And ever since... ever since Naneth died—" The Prince winced. "— she has been even less tactful and polite than usual.""Sorry, Fael." Elladan said vehemently. "But I am not going to be forgiving her for a long while. What she did was beyond rude and uncalled for. How could she stoop so low?""She wanted to test herself against Esgal, obviously." the younger twin muttered. He paused, looking around, and a panicked expression appeared on his face. "Where's Estel?"The other two elves halted in their tracks, turning around. The human was not there. Slowly, the three elves looked at each other, then at the forest."Ada is going to kill us." Elladan said flatly.LOTRLOTRLOTRLegolas sat in the tree that was above Ciaran's grave, leaning against the bark with glassy eyes. He was not crying but tears of frustration pricked at his eyes. Stupid bloody arrogant elves! Why couldn't they just leave him alone? That was what he got for revealing himself to so many strangers. Now that everyone in Mirkwood knew about him, they were interested in him. The Councilors wanted to prod into his past and question him. The ellith wanted to flirt with and stalk him. And the warriors saw him as a challenge or a loose cannon, and wanted to best him in a fight.Could they not see that he just wanted to be with his friends and be normal for once? Could they not tell that he wanted to be treated just like any other elf? He did not want to be seen as an assassin or a weapon to be used at their disposal. He did not want to be an opponent for the warriors to try to defeat to test their skills against the legendary "Hidden Guardian".He just wanted to be Legolas— or Esgal, if one was to b technical. He wanted to have friendly spars and play pranks with his friends. He wanted to sit beneath the stars without being bothered. He wanted to be free. Free of judging eyes, free of stone walls, free of protocol and niceties he did not like or understand.Legolas looked down at his hands, rubbing his fingers against the smooth, pale, but not-glowing palms of his skin. Maybe if he let his glow out, they would accept him? The assassin scoffed and chided himself soon as the thought formed. Having stayed at the palace for only one day, and he was already considering changing himself to try to appease others. He would never do that. He would never change who he was because someone thought he should or thought he was strange. His lack of a glow was a part of who Legolas was now, and idiotic elves who did not understand would not make him change that.Besides, his suppressed glow was not just for helping him hide in shadows, talk to shadowed trees, and remain hidden from enemies that could sense elves. An elf's glow represented their inner light, and was an extension of their soul. It was a piece of themselves that they exposed to the world, showing their strength and Light. That was why Legolas would not let his glow out. Because while inner lights could provide hope and light, they also allowed a piece of the elf to be touched by the outside world, including being touched by Shadow. That was a reason that the elves were reacting badly to the ever-growing Darkness. That was why they were losing strength and fading. It was why they were being called across the sea, so they would not eventually fade away or succumb to the Shadow that was slowly eating away at their souls.But the assassin knew it could not be helped. The other elves would never be able to suppress their glow like he could. They could dim it, but not make it vanish. Yet Legolas's glow was not "vanished" per say. It was not merely hidden. His inner light was now truly inside him. Specifically, it was around his heart, mind, and soul. Long ago, when he first came to Dol Guldur, Ciaran taught him to "suppress" his glow. In actuality, he taught Legolas how to take it and change it into an impenetrable shield. His inner light protected his heart, soul, and mind so they would never be touched by evil, darkness, or anything that wished to enter without his permission or with evil intent.Instead of his light being shown, it was inside him, stronger than ever because it was untouched by the Darkness in the outside world. Because of this, Legolas would never quail beneath the presence of Darkness. Because of this, he would never fall to the heaviness of the Shadow alone. If all other lights in the world went out, and all other elves fell beneath the sickening Darkness, he would still be there a fighter for the Light. Unbreakable in spirit and mind, even if his body itself was broken, he would remain, because no Darkness would ever claim him.He was Legolas, Esgal, Daelas, and Brian. He was the Hidden Guardian, Hoshvuras, and a deadly assassin. He had violet eyes, he did not glow, and he was proud of it.That did not mean that the warriors' words and actions did not hurt though.Legolas sensed the person coming before he saw him and sighed, but did not run off through the trees. If he did, the stubborn Balrog Slayer coming towards him would just keep following him. A moment later, Glorfindel emerged below him, looking up at the assassin with worried blue eyes."Esgal?"The violet-eyed elf did not speak or move. He idly wondered how Glorfindel had found him. The Light trees would converse with the Vanyar, but the shadowed trees would not. Maybe the golden-haired elf had followed the general sense of direction he had went to here. Legolas found that he did not care.Glorfindel eyed the black bark in front of him but set his jaw, speaking determinedly. "I'm coming up."He began to climb, and was surprised that the tree did not hiss or throw him off. The shadowed tree sensed that this too-bright elf would comfort Daelas— Daelas was sad—, so it let the elf up onto its branches. The too-bright elf's presence hurt, but Daelas needed comfort that the tree could not provide. Glorfindel settled down next to the silent elf, looking at him from the corner of his eye."Do you want to talk about it?""What is there to talk about?" the assassin asked flatly. "Bereneth and the other warriors are acting like pushy children who are jealous of the new babe their parents brought home."The Balrog Slayer's lips twitched at his description before he sobered. "They are jealous of your skills, and feel like they need to prove themselves.""Why can't they find another way to "prove themselves"?" Legolas demanded. "It insults me that they wish to spar with me with the purpose of trying to show that they are a better warrior than I am. Don't they understand how much I have trained and fought to get where I am? I've been trained to be an assassin since I was five! I don't just use my weapons to fight, I use my body and my knowledge of my opponent to take them out quickly, cleanly, and without a fuss. Why can't they see that I am a different type of fighter than them, and realize that they can't beat me one-on-one with their skill set? I've fought thirty Berserker Orcs before and won! Not only that, but they see me as a weapon or a threat. Why can't they see I just want to be free?"The assassin sounded plainly miserable, and Glorfindel's heart went out to the young elf. He reached over and hugged Legolas, who stiffened in his arms before relaxing."Those warriors are conceited idiots who cannot see the small things along with the big picture." He said quietly. "They see a legend and a strong warrior, not an elf that just wants some friends. Trust me, I know about this."Legolas closed his eyes, recalling one of the Balrog Slayer's many tales about what it had been like when he first came back from the dead and was in Rivendell. Many of the elves had been in such awe of Glorfindel that they had not noticed that he did not want to be bothered by them and only wanted quiet and peace to mourn and adjust to the situation he found himself in.Elrond and Erestor had greatly helped with the Balrog Slayer's recovery, being friends instead of admirers, and scolding and warding off those who wished to intrude on the Vanyar. Not only that, but a couple warriors wanted Glorfindel to start leading them and going out on patrols, immediately. They got a severe tongue-lashing from an enraged Elrond and were sent swiftly on their way. The memory of Glorfindel's booming laughter as he told Legolas of the event made the assassin smile, but his melancholy did not fade."At least they were not scared of you." he whispered."If they are, that is their problem." the Balrog Slayer said stubbornly. "And I don't think you will have to worry about them bothering you anymore. Aragorn will most likely punch the next person that looks at you wrong, Fael will give them an icy Prince-glare, and the twins will prank them in some humiliating and terrible way. That is not even including how livid Thranduil is going to be.""I didn't mean to cause a rift in their family. I did not mean to become someone they all heard of. I did not want to be a spectacle for them to stare at." Legolas mumbled.Glorfindel scowled and poked him in the forehead, making the assassin glare at him. "It is the Royal Family's decision to "choose a side" and it is not your fault that everyone seems to think that there needs to be sides. They are the idiots who are making a big deal out of this. Eventually, they will learn to treat you like anyone else or leave you be. You're not a legend to be fawned over, you're a person who just wants acceptance. Just ignore them, and if you need to, I give you my full permission to knock out anyone who tries to bully or use you."Legolas thought about this for a long while. Then he nodded, slow and hesitant, and a more genuine smile crossed his face. "Thank you Glorfindel. Even with the elves being nosy and... insensitive, I am glad that I showed myself to Estel, Elladan, Elrohir, and Fael. And Elrond, Erestor, and the Elvenking too. They do not judge me, and accept me readily. They also do not try to force me to be the Hidden Guardian when I only wish to be Esgal."Glorfindel smiled back at him. "I'm serious about you knocking them out. Try punching them in the face. Or maybe the nose. It is always fun to break their nose."The assassin stared at him, eyebrow raised. "Well aren't you a violent one. Are you speaking from experience?""...Maybe." the Vanyar said mischievously.Legolas laughed, a musical, beautiful sound."Why are you laughing?" Glorfindel pouted. "I'm just teaching my little brother the important skills of life!"The violet-eyed elf stopped mid-laugh, staring at him with wide eyes. "...What did you just call me?"The Balrog Slayer turned pink and shifted nervously on the branch, freezing as the shadowed tree rustled in warning. "You heard me, Esgal.""You see me as you little brother?" the elf asked dazedly, suddenly sounding very young.Seeing his shocked confusion, Glorfindel spoke gently. "Yes, I do."Legolas stared at him, struck mute and unsure of how to respond. Now that he thought about it, Glorfindel was like an older brother to him. He was a friend, confidant,and a strong presence he could rely on if the assassin needed to. That was what a sibling did, right? All Legolas knew was that he felt safe, secure, and happy whenever he was with the Vanyar. He felt like he could act his relatively young age and did not need to hide his emotions or put up a front. The Balrog Slayer could not be his father figure— Ciaran would hold that place in his heart if/until he remembered his birth family, and the assassin had seen too much of Glorfindel's playful side to call him that. Yes, the title of "brother" made sense."I see you as an older brother." Legolas admitted slowly. "I... would like to call you "Gwador"... if that's all right?"Glorfindel's grin was so wide that the violet-eyed elf was sure that it would split his face in half. "Of course it is all right!" he exclaimed joyfully.Legolas perked up, expression brightening. He hugged Glorfindel tightly, mumbling into his shoulder. "Thank you... You don't know what this means to me."The Balrog Slayer chuckled softly. "I think I might have a vague idea."The younger elf nodded against his shoulder, both happy and overwhelmed. Long ago he had never expected acceptance from an Elf Lord like Glorfindel, but now here he was, with said Lord as a brother-of-the-heart. The shadowed trees around the two elves could not understand most of the conversation between the two, but they saw how much Daelas cared for the too-bright golden-haired glowing elf, and how the elf made Daelas smile.Daelas cared for the too-bright elf, more than the trees had ever seen him care for any elf their Shadowleaf had rescued. The too-bright-Glorfindel elf was precious to Daelas. Pained but determined, the shadowed trees embedded too-bright-Glorfindel into their memories, passing on his image to their kin.Do not harm too-bright-Glorfindel, they told each other, intent on remembering this important fact. He is close to Daelas. Daelas's... gwadir. Gawdor. Gwador. Gwador. Gwador. The Sindarin word hurt their voices but still they spoke it, passing on the message.Legolas heard them speaking and looked up, smiling slightly. Gwador. He told them. Brother.They rustled and waved but did not hiss. Glorfindel was Daelas's heart-brother. They would not hurt him. They would keep him safe for Daelas. The Balrog Slayer frowned deeply, closing his eyes and straining his ears as he tried to discern something from the trees' dark voices. He blinked twice, listening harder, then turned to Legolas."Did they just say "Gwador"?""Yes." Legolas murmured. "They will not hurt you now, and they will help you if you are in trouble. They do not care about friends of mine, but you are now a brother-of-my-heart. I already lost my heart-father. They... they don't want me to lose anyone else."Glorfindel was quiet. His glow dimmed to a soft sheen— the most that any elf other than the assassin could lower their inner light— and he reached up, touching a black leaf on the tree. The tree trembled slightly but did not lash out, only a small spark of pain going through it before it faded. Too-bright-Glorfindel was warm, it realized. His hands were warm, like Daelas's hands. Warm but not painful, like the other elves touch."Even in greatest Darkness, there is still hope and light," Glorfindel murmured, watching as a black branch slowly and gently wrapped around his hand."Yes." Legolas murmured. "Almost everything has good within it. The only things that I have heard of or come across that hold no Good are orcs, goblins, wargs, the Nazgûl, the Dark Lords, and demons. They have fully given themselves to Darkness and the Shadow, in such a way that they are a slave to it. These trees..." The tree they sat in touched his shoulder with its branch. "Did not choose to become like this. Even now, they still fight and rebel against evil, choosing to side with me rather than the Darkness. Their free will is only hindered, not completely gone."The assassin sighed deeply and looked up, where the sky was covered with grey clouds. The Balrog Slayer looked up as well and smiled, pointing at a cloud."That one looks like a rabbit."Legolas was startled into laughing before he too pointed. "And that one looks like a giant hand.""That one is a dog.""A dog? It looks more like a squashed toad.""It does not. It is a dog.""Is not.""Is too.""Is not."Glorfindel snorted and shook his head. "Five minutes into it and we're already acting like brothers." His expression turned solemn and he looked directly at Legolas. "Do you want to stay here for a bit or go back?"The assassin thought about it then leapt down from his perch, landing lightly on his feet. "I will have to face them all eventually so I might as well make it now."Glorfindel landed beside him and straightened. "Good. The longer you stay out here, the more time they'll have to gossip."Legolas scoffed. "That is another part of society that I'm glad to have not been exposed—"He stopped, head whipping to the left. Glorfindel's sword was out of its sheath in an instant."Where and how many?" he asked calmly."There are at least fifty orcs a league away," the assassin said rapidly. "They've just captured two people. A dwarf and a—" Legolas paled and turned to Glorfindel, eyes wide with fear. "It is Estel! The orcs have him!"LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: Cliffhanger, hanging from a cliiiiiiiffffff! (whistles innocently) :DI finally went into a little more detail on why Legolas keeps his glow suppressed. Sorry if I didn't explain it fully to those who asked, but I wanted to keep the lack-of-glow's full purpose secret for this chapter. :) By keeping his glow suppressed/inside him, he keeps it from being tainted, strengthening it, along with using it as to shield his heart, mind, and soul from anything that tries to touch or harm them.A special thank you to Moonlight900 for being the 300th reviewer! :D :D :D I sincerely thank you all for the amazing, awesome, wonderful, inspiring, marvelous, epic, loving reviews! I'm so happy all of you are loving this story! :DResponses to Guest reviews:To "Lucy": Thank you. Don't cry! o_OTo "Guest"(1): Thanks!To "Guest"(2): Thank you! There will be two more big enemies other than Aglar. One is a man, who you will meet soon. (Hint/Spoiler: He's related to Drust). The other is the Darkness that wants to be freed... ;) Sorry, Legolas won't remember for a while.To "Guest" (3): Thank you! Amulug is going to be a BIG problem in part II. It is nice that so many people are happy that I am not writing romance. :)To "TiTaN": Thanks! Legolas doesn't glow because of trust issues, because it is second nature to him, and because he has almost forgotten that he can glow. Suppressing his inner light is as instinctive to him as breathing. He doesn't even think about it. Plus you saw the explaination this chapter.To "FalenOfTheForest": Thank you for reviewing! I hate parties too. :(To "Badass Female": Thank you for reviewing! What is Resident Evil? The name sounds familiar... Is it a movie? (confused expression) Maybe once I... see(?) it I will consider writing a crossover, but that definitely won't happen until All That Remains is finished. :) To "emi": Thank you! Yup, Drust's descendant is going to show up as another major antagonist. Both will be working under the Darkness's command. (tries to imagine Legolas in a council meeting) Do you WANT the Councilors to die?! (sniggers) The twins fear the revelation of Aragorn's name because Mirkwood is so Shadowed, and the enemy could have spies nearby. The Witch-King and Saruman are not sure that Estel is Isildur's Heir, and if word that Aragorn lived reached their ears, the Ranger would be put in great danger. The name "Aragorn, Son of Arathorn" is not a safe one to speak yet. The elves want to keep Aragorn as "Estel" for as long as possible. Then again, that plan went out the window because Amulug is going to the Darkness... I accidentally had Legolas call Aragorn by that name a couple times. That is my mistake and I have to fix it. It is confusing because I was writing a far-future chapter where Legolas can call Aragorn "Aragorn", then was writing that one where he can't. Ugh. :P I meant what I said about Thranduil knowing. He will know his youngest son lives... but he might not know that he is Esgal, like you guessed. He finds out in the event that links Parts One and Two. To "Devil Red": Thank you for reviewing! Oddly enough, I picture him in an Assassin's Creed outfit from time to time too. :P Ciaran is pronounced "Keer-on". Ciaran and his family (plus their descendants) were like Aragorn, and aged slower than other humans. He was about "seventy" years old when Legolas was captured, and about "one hundred fifty" when he died. Physically, he looked maybe thirty-five, forty when Legolas was captured, and a healthy fifty to sixty years old when he died.To "Guest) (4): Thanks! Stupid laptop... It keeps exchanging the words! Seriously, I opened one of my school assignments and it was talking about history one minute, and about my future career choices the next! :(Please review! :D


********** Page 18 **********

A/N: Many more hints at the AU towards the end of this... ;)LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Seventeen: An Elf, a Man, and a DwarfThird Age 2956 (55 years ago...)"Angry" was not the proper word to describe the expression on Thranduil's face. "Enraged" did not even come close to revealing the emotion in the Elvenking's aura. "Livid" was not enough to tell how furious the Sindar was feeling.The Elvenking was a caged, man-eating tiger as he paced— prowled— in front of his daughter, back and forth across her line of vision. His robes billowed about him as he moved and his glow— usually kept under wraps and dimmed— blazed and rippled with fury. His blue eyes seemed to glow in the candlelight, the emotion within them chilling Bereneth to the bone.He was the very image of an Elf Lord in all his glory, omnipotent, beautiful, larger than life, and absolutely cold. Bereneth's father looked so powerful and otherworldly in his anger that if she did not know any better, the Princess would swear that one of the Valar had come to Middle-earth to place judgment upon her.Back and forth the Elvenking stalked in his study, none around to witness the Princess's punishment. The advisers and Elrond had been cast out of — more like fled— the room the moment Elladan had reported what had transpired between Esgal and the warriors. Bereneth was sure that her father's rage would be enough to terrify Sauron if the Dark Lord came upon the Elvenking now.Thranduil halted in his pacing, back to her. Even though he was not facing her, the golden-haired elleth knew her father was glaring at the wall. Still, the Sindar did not speak. Bereneth also remained quiet, afraid to break the silence between them. She just wanted her father to talk, to say something so they could get this lecture over with. But the Elvenking did not utter a word, and would not look at her. The silence stretched on, and Bereneth dare not break it.Finally, Thranduil spoke. "Princess Bereneth of the Royal Family of Mirkwood... your arrogance astounds me." His voice was calm— far too calm and cold— and the elleth knew that the dam had not yet broken.She swallowed reflexively and broke her silence. "Adar—"With that single word, the dam holding the Elvenking's rage shattered. He spun to face her, blazing and powerful."WHAT WERE YOU THINKING?!" the Sindar shouted. "I raised you to be a proper royal and a honorable warrior, and yet you do this! You act like an orc, and insult and provoke a guest!"When her father compared her to an orc, Bereneth's own temper flared. "A guest? Esgal is a freak!"Thranduil's mouth moved wordlessly before his entire presence seemed to darken. "A freak, you say? How so?" His voice was scathing, cold, and snarling, but the Princess responded anyway."He doesn't glow. He can hide in plain sight. He can speak to the shadowed trees. He has abilities that are unnatural and Dark." she snapped. "He is an assassin, and a dangerous—""Funny." the Elvenking interrupted in an icy, low voice that did not belay humor at all. "Your argument sounds just like Aglar's. But he did not antagonize and offend a person we welcomed into our home." He glared at her, daring her to speak. "You have only made yourself lower in my eyes with your words. You try to hide behind prejudice, using it as an excuse, but I know that is not the main reason you wanted to "spar" with Esgal. You wanted to flaunt your skills and abilities in front of your warriors. You wanted to prove that you were better than some "freakish" Wood-elf."His voice shook with fury, and his hands clenched at his sides, the nails biting into his palms. "You and so many of the warriors only see Esgal as a weapon and an outsider. Not to be trusted, not to be kind to, only to be used to show that you are better than him. After all, you are proud warriors of Mirkwood, and he is only a homeless assassin." The Elvenking's voice dripped sarcasm and wrath like a crack in a volcano dripped lava.Thranduil looked straight into her eyes, face changing into an apathetic mask, and spoke in a tone that held no inflection. "You disgust me. Not only have you thrown away all sense of duty and honor, but you were childishly rude and insensitive to the elf that has been aiding in our fight against the Shadow and saved my life. If Esgal wasn't a "freak", if he did not have the skills and connections that he did, if he did not care enough about this world to come out of the shadows to save me, I would be dead. I would have died long ago. I have spoken with Glorfindel. He told me how much Esgal feared revealing himself to the elves. At first, he feared rejection because of his lack of glow. Then he feared people acting like prejudiced fools, and that they would try to use or contain him. Congratulations, Bereneth, you proved him right.""Have you bothered to think about what Esgal has done for us? You have seen the reports of dead orcs and Spiders over the years. You know he drove out the large Spider colony that had been taking our warriors. He is the Hidden Guardian. He protected us from the Shadows and aided us without being asked. He saved Lord Elrohir, and— according to Lord Glorfindel— helped to solidify the alliance between the dwarves and elves. And so you thanked Esgal for all he has done... by bullying him, antagonizing him, and acting like an arrogant brat." Thranduil spat.He looked into her eyes, and his blue orbs closed. "And you don't even care. You don't care how much you have hurt him. You would never insult or be cruel to a fellow warrior in such a way, but because Esgal does not glow, because he is dangerous, because he is secretive, because he is a better fighter than you are—" Despite herself Bereneth flinched. "—You felt the need to show your dominance and superiority. You have brought shame upon yourself, the warriors, and this family!"The final sentence was a growl, not a shout but might as well have been. Bereneth inwardly cringed at her father's tone."I'm sorry." the Princess said stiffly.His blue eyes were stern and hard. "No you are not. You are not sorry that you harassed and bullied a guest. You are sorry that you got caught and were humiliated." He straightened, and he was no longer the angry parent, but the livid, cold Elvenking. He was unsympathetic, aloof, and hard. They were no longer father and daughter, but King and shamed Captain. "Due to your level of immaturity and aggression, I hereby strip you of your title of Captain, and forbid you from joining in patrols for the next twenty summers." Thranduil gave her punishment in a flat, apathetic voice, but his eyes still burned like flaring blue torches.Bereneth gaped in shock. "Adar, you cannot be serious!"Thranduil's expression was cold. "I am serious, my daughter. You have become arrogant and violent, and I do not like it. You need a break from war and fighting, and need to learn humility. No patrols. No orc or Spider hunts. You ay train if you wish but if I hear that you have broken my trust and rebelled against me, I will punish you as severely as any of my warriors."The demoted Princess resisted the urge to gulp nervously. She knew as well as anyone what happened to warriors who disobeyed the Elvenking. The punishment ranged from the absolute stripping of their warrior title to imprisonment for a number of years. That was unless their disobedience was treasonous. Treason meant exile from every Elven realm, like what had happened with Amulug.Swallowing her pride and anger, Bereneth bowed lowly, and spoke in a bitter voice. "Yes, my Lord.""You are dismissed." the Elvenking said flatly.The Princess spun on her heel and left, angry more than upset. Thranduil watched his daughter go and sighed, reaching up and rubbing his temples. He knew that Bereneth had a fiery spirit, but her arrogance could not be tolerated. The confrontation with Esgal had not been the first time the elleth had acted like this. The Elvenking did not know what to do. Bereneth could not see how aloof she was acting.Thranduil had been informed about the Shadows in some elves, and feared that his daughter was becoming afflicted with such a condition. He did not know which scenario he feared more, the one where she was indeed poisoned in her soul by Darkness, or that her anger, antagonism, and arrogance were her own. Either way, he intended to keep the Princess in the still-Light part of Mirkwood, away from the Shadow's touch until he could figure out a way to make her see that her actions were wrong.A rapid knock on the door made the Elvenking look up. Tollui was standing in the doorway, worry etched on his features. Alarmed, Thranduil rose to his feet."What is wrong?""My Lord," the adviser said in a rush. "The dwarves from Erebor are here. They were attacked on the way here by Spiders.""Are they all right?" Thranduil asked, very glad that Elrond was in Mirkwood."Yes." Tollui responded, still looking frazzled. "But one of their number was separated from them in the skirmish. They found the Spiders' bodies but there was no sign of him. They think he wandered off and got lost in the woods."The Elvenking's visage darkened. Everyone knew how dangerous Mirkwood was, even in the day. He strode out the door, towards the throne room with his friend at his side. "We'll send out patrols immediately to find him. Which one is missing?""The youngest one in their group. He is only about ten years younger than Fili, but he has never been to this realm before." Tollui responded. "His name is Gimli."LOTRLOTRLOTRGimli, son of Gloin, was your average type of dwarf. Neither too tall nor too short, not too fat or too thin, he had auburn hair and a proud beard of the same shade of reddish-brown. He was a warrior whose chosen weapon was the axe, and held a wide expanse of knowledge on caves, mines, gems, and other things to do with stone and craftsmanship. About half of a hour ago, he and his dwarf party had arrived in Mirkwood. The group had included Kili, Fili, Balin, four negotiators, and— of course— Gimli.Gimli was the youngest in the party, though not by much, and he was long past his majority. However, he had never encountered or dealt with the elves before, and his father and King Thorin had agreed that it was far past time that Gimli learned a little bit about their immortal allies and their culture.His father was still slightly hesitant about sending his son to the place where he had been imprisoned years ago, but the stubborn dwarf had put his trust in Kili and Fili to keep Gimli out of trouble— blatantly disregarding the fact that the auburn-haired dwarf was usually the one to pull the mischievous brothers out of danger. While older and able to act mature at times, the royal brothers still had a knack for mischief a mile wide.So Gimli had joined the diplomatic party merely to observe and learn about elven culture, something which he was not too thrilled about. He would rather be in the caves and halls of the Lonely Mountain than amidst the trees with flighty elves.Not all of Gloin's wariness of elves had faded— the mysterious elf Esgal, who Gimli had never met, being the noteworthy exception— and some of his habits and thoughts had been passed down to his son. A half hour ago, all the party could do was hope that Gimli did not say or do anything that made Thranduil throw them in prison again.Worrying about being polite to the elves and elven dungeons was now the least of the auburn-haired dwarf's problems. One irritating situation and bad stroke of luck had been swiftly followed by another after the party had entered the forest.First of all, Gimli was on his way to meet elves. The dwarf was not sure how he felt about elves, Gloin's stories and the whispered warnings he heard around Erebor being the most prominent things in his mind. He had a feeling that many of the elves would be aloof or act superior because of his race or age. If so, this trip was not going to be enjoyable at all. And so, as the group had gone deeper into the woods, Gimli's melancholy had increased.Gimli's second issue had been that he was in a forest. The auburn-haired dwarf was perfectly all right with most forests— though he preferred caves— but Mirkwood was plain old creepy. He was not one to pay attention to trees, but there was a definitive wrongness to the living woods around him, a heaviness and gloom that had nothing to do with the lack of light beneath the boughs.Of course, while they were walking under the dark trees, Kili and Fili had informed him— quite serious for once— that the trees around the dwarves could actually kill them if they wished. That did not make Gimli feel any better about the woods."Don't worry, Gimli." Kili had told the younger dwarf. "Luckily for all who travel in this realm, Esgal is able to keep the trees from trying to kill us for their own amusement. Be glad that they only try to make us afraid."Gimli had spent the next few minutes mulling this over. He did not know much about the mysterious assassin-elf that the dwarves who had taken part in the quest to reclaim Erebor had befriended, and had never met him. It was not like Gloin would/could invite Esgal over for dinner. From the bits and pieces that Gimli had gathered, the elf was violet-eyed, an assassin, a great warrior and fighter, did not glow, was known to be shy and wary around strangers, and had saved the Line of Durin in the Battle of the Five Armies. He knew that his father tolerated and even liked the elf, which told Gimli that Esgal could not be too prissy... Maybe he would be able to tolerate one elf on this trip. If the assassin was even in Mirkwood at all.When Gimli had mentioned seeking out the assassin, Kili had laughed and said. "One does not find him. He finds you."Not long after that, the group had run into an ambush set by Spiders. The following skirmish with the monsters had resulted with Gimli being separated from the others, losing his way in the shadowy forest. So of course— to just make his bad and irritating day worse— Gimli had run into what had to be the largest group of orcs in the realm. He had managed to take down seven of them before he was captured, and tied to their other prisoner. A human with dark hair.And so here Gimli son of Gloin was, captured by orcs and tied to an unconscious man, glowering at the monsters around him and angry that they had taken all of his axes. He could see his weapons piled with the man's sword and dagger, black orc blood still covering all of the blades. Apparently the man had fought too before being captured. Once he awoke, they would have to come up with a plan to escape. Gimli was a confident dwarf and a great warrior, but even he admitted that he would not win against fifty orcs.The orc captain— an ugly brute with a jagged scar across his forehead— strutted over to the two prisoners. He grabbed the man's hair and pulled his head up, scoffing when the human did not react. He said something in the harsh Black Speech before drawing his hand back and slapping the man across the face. The human woke with a gasp, and Gimli could turn just enough in his bonds to see the man's silver eyes slip open, widening before narrowing with loathing as he spotter his captor."It's 'bout time ya woke up," the orc sneered at him in gravelly Westron.The man did not speak. Gimli too kept his silence, though he shifted and moved, eyes scanning the area around them."I don't like games, so let's jus' get to the point." the orc growled. "Where is the Hidden One?"The dwarf blinked in confusion, but he felt the human stiffen the tiniest bit behind him."The what?" Gimli asked, getting the orcs to focus on him rather than the man."Where is the one who can hide from our Master's sight?" the monster snarled.Gimli had no idea what he was talking about, but again the man shifted slightly. So the human was aware of whom they were speaking of."Who is your Master?" the man asked instead.The orc slapped him. "I'm the one asking the questions! You were with the elves before you went into the woods, human. I know you know who the Hidden One is!""I don't know what you are talking about." the man protested, obvious confusion in his voice. But Gimli could feel the man's heart pounding, and knew that was a lie."You lie." the orc captain snarled.He unsheathed his sword, leveling it at Gimli's face. The dwarf leaned back slightly, nose only an inch from the blade."You will respond truthfully, or I'll start carving up the stunted one." the monster threatened. "Who and where is the Hidden One?""Don't tell them anything, laddie." Gimli warned. He did not know what was going on, but he knew that the orcs did not want the location of this "Hidden One" for platonic reasons. Besides, once they got the information they needed, the dwarf and man would be killed.The orc bared his yellowed teeth in the auburn-haired dwarf's face, but his eyes were on the man. "Last chance. Where is the Hidden One?""Right here." a musical, lilting voice said from behind the captain.Gimli blinked and suddenly the orc's head was detached from his body, black blood spraying over the dwarf's face. The body fell, revealing a cloaked elf. His hood was down, revealing pale blonde hair and pointed ears, but that was not the feature Gimli spotted first. The elf's eyes were violet. Recognition was instantaneous, and despite the fact that he had just been saved by an elf and was still tied up, the dwarf smiled."One does not find him. He finds you."And that was how Gimli, the only son and child of Gloin, met Esgal.LOTRLOTRLOTRLegolas raced through the treetops, Glorfindel swiftly falling behind as the assassin almost flew through the familiar route in the trees. He could sense Estel, the dwarf, and the orcs ahead. There was a relatively small group with the prisoners, but a much larger group headed towards them. The other orcs were far away however, and the violet-eyed elf knew that he could reach Estel before they arrived.Worry and annoyance rippled through the elf's body, his gut tightening and his expression twisting in irritation. How did the orcs get so deep into Mirkwood without anyone noticing? Surely the patrols Thranduil set out would have run into them. Legolas grimaced. The orcs were a large force, and any patrol that did find them would have been slaughtered. With that in mind, the elf hoped no one had run into the orcs. Or, if they had, they had remained hidden and gone to warn the Elvenking and gain reinforcements.The assassin came upon the scene as the orc captain threatened the dwarf prisoner. Legolas's eyes flicked over Aragorn, searching for injuries and finding none other than a bump on his head, before he studied the dwarf. He recognized him, though they had never officially met.He was Gimli, Gloin's son. The elf had spotted the dwarf a few times when he visited Erebor, but had never approached him. Gimli had always been with many other dwarves, and it was not in the assassin's nature to go out and say hello to people when there were many others with them. The elven warriors' reactions to him was a perfect example as to why he was cautious."...Last chance." the orc captain snarled, sword held threateningly close to Gimli. "Where is the Hidden One?"Legolas could see Aragorn's indecision from his perch in the tree. He too could guess who the orc was referring to: him. Hidden One. Hidden Guardian. It was not that hard to figure out. Why the orcs thought the man knew, the elf had no idea, but now was not the time for musing. Without a second thought, the assassin dropped into the orc camp, behind the captain."Right here." he stated, and cut off the monster's head.The body fell, revealing Gimli's shocked expression. Recognition flickered in the dwarf's eyes and he grinned. Then one of the orcs screamed."Get 'im!"They came at the elf, a force that would normally make a single fighter flee, but the assassin only let a blank mask cover his features. The orcs ignored the man and dwarf, focusing on the threat in their midst. He was the Hidden One, the one they had been sent to kill. He was their target.Legolas turned his knives outward, lifting and straightening his arms in a single swift movement and stabbing the two orcs at his sides. He turned slashing across the throat of another orcs as he spun, ducking a strike and circling around the orc, his knife sinking into the creature's back. His arms swung inwards, both blades cutting deeply into an orc's chest, shifted his hold and brought the blade down and back, into the stomach of the orc trying to sneak up behind him.The assassin kicked another orc in the chest so hard it's sternum shattered. He stabbed the downed orc before lifting it off the ground and throwing it into its allies. In a nanosecond he sheathed his daggers, letting throwing knives fall into his palms and throwing them at the fallen orcs. Each knife hit its mark.His elven daggers were unsheathed as another orc swung at his neck. He dropped to the ground, spinning with his leg kicking out, making another two orcs fall to the ground in a heap. Two quick downward strikes ended them, and Legolas rose to his feet once more.The assassin sensed the orc behind him, thirty yards away and moved, leaning out of the way of the arrow the archer had sent at him. He turned and unsheathed his bow, shooting once. The orc, unlike the elf, did not have honed reflexes and took the arrow in the forehead. He hit another of the monsters in the gut with his sturdy bow, a pained gasp escaping from the creature. Quick as a blink he stabbed an arrow into the orc's eye, pulling it out and shooting it at the other archer.The long distance threats neutralized, Legolas brought out his knives once more. Steps light and quick he danced out of the path of the orc's swinging sword, twisting and slashing across the back of the beast's neck. Two orcs ran at him from both sides, yelling, and he watched them come. They swung at him and he merely stepped back, the two impaling each other on their blades."Oi!" a gruff voice yelped.The call did not distract him, and without even looking he threw his knife at the orc threatening Aragorn and Gimli. He let a throwing knife fall into his hand, turned, and threw it. Gimli gave a surprised yell as the knife flew at him, slicing through the rope holding him and the man together. The two stared dumbly as the ropes fell limply around them. Then Gimli growled and retrieved his axes."It's about time!"As he spoke, an orc lunged forward, grabbing the elf's hair in a firm grip, only to give a scream and let go, rivulets of blood dripping down its fingers. The assassin turned his knives so they were facing upward, stabbing the orc in the jaw, up into its brain. Then elf, man, and dwarf paused, all looking around the now silent clearing. Gimli scowled and glared at the assassin."You could have left us a few!"Aragorn, meanwhile, was counting the dead enemies. "...Nineteen. Twenty. Twenty-one! You just killed twenty-one orcs!"Legolas nodded. "Yes.""Twenty-one." the man stressed."I can count.""By yourself.""So? I've slain more."There it was again, the open confusion. Legolas was used to fighting large scores of enemies on his own. This was nothing special or amazing... right? The Ranger's expression said otherwise.Aragorn sighed and shook his head, giving up. "Next time, free us before you fight. We can help."The assassin smiled nervously. "All right. It's just... I am not used to fighting alongside others." He paused, turning to the left. "Though I do believe it is time that I learn. There is another wave coming."Gimli was broken from his irritation that he had not been able to kill any orcs by his words. The dwarf looked at him incredulously. "How do you—?""How many?" Aragorn interrupted."At least forty." the assassin said calmly. "I am Esgal, by the way Master Gimli. It is a pleasure to meet you at last.""Likewise," the dwarf admitted, looking into the trees eagerly as he waited for the orcs to come. "You are as great of a warrior as my father claimed.""You know the dwarves and yet you did not reveal yourself to me or the elves?" Aragorn demanded. Then he brushed his annoyance aside, drawing his sword. "I wish we had met under different circumstances, Gimli. I am Estel, adoptive son of Lord Elrond."Surprise flitted across Gimli's features before they returned to a determined mask. "Great. How far away are the orcs, Esgal?""Two hundred meters and closing fast," Legolas said, voice strained.He looked at his two companions, and fear settled in his heart. He had never fought alongside allies in a battle like this. The only time he had ever been close was the Battle of the Five Armies. It did not count, however, because when he had been with Thorin, Fili, and Kili, he had been forced to adapt his fighting style to that more like a warriors. In that battle, he had consciously stayed still and with his companions, not moving away. But now his assassin mentality was burning through him like a fire in his veins, and he knew that he would be fighting like one within this battle.He would dodge and aim to kill. He would strike faster than a snake, with no concern for all around him. He had two focuses when he was in this mentality: killing and survival. Which lead him to a fear he did not know he had: What if he accidentally caused harm to his allies? What if, by dodging, the enemy's blade hit the man or dwarf instead? What if, instead of striking an opponent he accidentally hit Aragorn of Gimli?Aragorn noticed his expression. He recalled the way that the elf fought and dodged, and how he said he was not used to fighting with allies at his side. "Esgal, how about you cover us with that bow of yours." the man said. "We'll take care of any enemies you miss."The elf felt relief wash through him like a warm wave. He would not have to fight alongside them at first. He quickly retrieved his arrows and shot up a tree, peering down at the man and dwarf. "I only have twenty-five arrows."Gimli huffed, hefting his axe. "You won't be needing all of them, Elf. You've killed twenty-one orcs, now I have to catch up!"The elf laughed, the joyful, heart-lifting chuckle of his race. "We shall see, Master Dwarf."He could see the orcs in the forest and put four arrows to his bow, drawing back. The weapons went soaring, each striking an orc in the head or throat. They went down and the other orcs roared, shrieking like animals as they ran at the three warriors.Aragorn stabbed one in the chest, sword sweeping sideways to sever another's head from its body. Beside him, Gimli struck an orc in the knees, forcing it down before killing it with a hard downward swing of his axe. Legolas shot the orcs that tried to crowd his allies, taking out any that tried to sneak up on them.The Ranger spun his sword in his hand, slicing an orc vertically up its torso, and blocked the sword of another, forcing the blade aside and slicing off its arm. A quick downward thrust ended its screaming. He turned, catching an orc across it's stomach, and blocked a downward swipe, circling his blade around and plunging it into the orc's torso, right below its collar bone. A diagonal swing slashed open an orc from its shoulder to its hip.Gimli struck an orc in its lower back, another in the stomach, and a third in the chest. His axe moved with deadly precision, each slash and strike hitting its target. He turned, swinging his weapon horizontally, and cutting into yet another enemy. Noting an orc twenty feet away, the dwarf unsheathed his throwing axe, and tossed it. It flew through the air, circling vertically, and slammed into the orc's forehead, bringing the creature down.The orcs fell quickly to Gimli's axe, Aragorn's sword, and Legolas's arrows, and soon only five remained. Legolas put an arrow to his bow, sighting, and paused as three new presences entered his awareness.An instant later, a blaze of white light blinded the remaining orcs, their pained screams ripping through the clearing. Legolas's allies yelped in surprise at the sudden magic, but the elf was calm. He blinked rapidly, eyes adjusting, and shot the remaining orcs with practiced ease. Then he searched for the source of the light.Standing there, staff raised and a determined expression on his face, was Radagast. On his left was Glorfindel, who looked stunned by the Brown Wizards display of power, and on his right was a gray-cloaked man who wore a hat similar to Radagast's. Legolas identified him instantly. Gandalf the Gray."We could have taken them." Gimli grumbled, glaring at the Wizards.Legolas ignored him, leaping from his tree and landing on the ground. He did not speak to Mithrandir for a moment, focusing on his Istar friend. "Thank you, Radagast."The Brown Wizard looked pleased with himself. "Glorfindel ran into us on the way here and told us what had happened. I'm afraid that's why we took so long to arrive. We aren't as fast as you are when you run through the trees." He glanced at Gandalf and walked forward, standing beside Legolas. "Gandalf, this is Esgal. He's an old friend of mine, and he's the one who convinced me to help more in the fight against the Shadow."Gandalf's eyebrows rose. "Really?" He studied the violet-eyed elf intently. "I'm guessing that you are the Hidden Guardian then?"Legolas glanced at Aragorn, who blushed. "The name fit, all right?""Yes he is the Guardian," Radagast informed his peer. "He is also the one who made me care about more than the animals in this forest. He helped me see that the elves within it were worth fighting for as well."Gandalf blinked and looked at Legolas with gratitude in his wise eyes. He smiled warmly at the young elf. "Well then. I must thank you, Esgal, for aiding Radagast in finding his conviction."Words could not describe how grateful the Gray Wizard was. Without Esgal, the Brown Wizard would have remained the bumbling, uninvolved Istar he had been. His eccentric personality had not changed, but there was a fire in his eyes and a determination within him that had not existed a few hundred years ago. The elf seemed to understand the gratitude Mithrandir felt, and only smiled and nodded once in acknowledgment.Meanwhile, Gimli was walking about the battlefield, making sure their enemies were indeed dead. He paused next to the last orc the assassin had killed in the first skirmish."Esgal! Why did that one orc start bleeding when it grabbed your hair?" the auburn-haired dwarf wanted to know.Legolas smiled at him and gently picked up one of his braids by the end, unwinding it and revealing a thin string-like piece of metal lined with spikes. He quickly rewound the braid once more, hiding the sharp metal from view."Recently during a battle, an orc got close enough to me to grab my hair. It was not a pleasant experience and I had no desire to have a repeat of it so I went to the smithy and asked him to create these spikes. They are small enough not to be noticed but sharp enough to cut a person who tries to pull my hair and make them release me. My braids are also positioned in a way so that most of the time an enemy will grab one of them, and if I turn abruptly the spikes won't strike me in the face."The assassin thought about all of the warrior-elves he knew with long hair. If they were not wearing a helm, pulling their hair would be easy for an enemy if they got behind them. He glanced at Glorfindel, who looked distant and strained. His eyes were dark, lost in memory. Legolas winced as he guessed what exactly the Vanyar was remembering. He had never forgotten his death. A hand reached up and the Balrog Slayer touched his long golden locks, and when he spoke his voice was soft."Could I get some of those?"Legolas nodded adamantly. "Yes. I will have the man who made mine make you some, Gwador."The affectionate name made Glorfindel's lips curve upward a tiny bit. Aragorn and Gandalf were confused as to why the assassin had called the Balrog Slayer brother. Gimli had no idea what the elf had just said, and did not care. Radagast, however, had a big smile on his face as he watched Glorfindel give the young elf an affectionate pat on the arm before turning to the dwarf."Where is the rest of your party?" the Vanyar questioned.Gimli shrugged. "They should be at the palace by now. We got separated.""Then we should be heading there," Gandalf said briskly. "They'll be worried about you, no doubt about it. Let us go ease their minds."They burned the orcs' bodies, smoke rising into the air, and departed, returning swiftly to the palace.None of them noticed that a single orc had escaped the massacre, and was currently running far away from the battle, intent on its new mission. It was a captain, and it had found the Hidden One. It did not know whether the elf, man, or dwarf was the Hidden One, but it knew that when it had come upon the battle, it could no longer hear its master in his mind.The captain had to get away from the elves and Mirkwood, and tell its master what had happened. Because even though it did not know which one the Hidden One was, it knew what the Hidden One looked like. It had to inform its master of this. Its master would know what to do.LOTRLOTRLOTRLegolas was silent as the mismatched party made their way back to the Elvenking's palace. They were an interesting and strange group. Two elves, two Wizards, a dwarf, and a man. All they needed was a hobbit for their odd band to b complete. However, despite the company he kept, the violet-eyed elf felt dread settling in his gut.Glorfindel noticed his little brother's increasing discomfort, watching as he seemed to shrink in on himself more with each step. His face was blank but his eyes revealed his worry."It will be all right," the Vanyar told him quietly, too softly for the others to hear."Will it really?" Legolas murmured back in a small voice. "I humiliated their Princess. They'll hate me.""She deserved it." Glorfindel growled coldly. She deserved a lot worse. I hope Thranduil punishes her properly. "The warriors will see that. They'll shun her, not you. Her actions were rude and dishonorable, and it will take a while for the warriors to respect her again.""...Then Bereneth is going to hate me." the assassin muttered. "A lot.""If she attacks you, you can kick her royal ass again." Glorfindel said vehemently.That forced a chuckle out of Legolas, and he felt much better. Again, he was reminded of how safe he felt around his big brother. It was nice to know that someone had his back so fully. The assassin stayed close to the Balrog Slayer as they entered the palace grounds. Thranduil, Aglar, Elrond, the twins, and a couple familiar dwarves— Fili and Kili, Legolas noted.— were hurrying towards them, told of their arrival by the guards."Gimli!" the brothers chorused. "You're all right?""Of course I'm all right." Gimli grunted. "You're not getting rid of me that easy.""Thanks for finding him Esgal." Kili chirped, a mischievous glint in his eyes. "Thank you for finding poor little Gimi when he got lost in the woods.""I did not get lost!" Gimli snapped."Riiigggghhhht." the brothers drawled, disbelieving.Thranduil cleared his throat, stepping forward and drawing attention to him. "Welcome to my home, Gimli, son of Gloin. I am glad you have returned from your... detour safely."The dwarf studied the Elvenking suspiciously for a moment before giving him a short bow. "Thank you for welcoming me, Elvenking.""Now that you are no longer missing, we can begin forming the new agreement between our realms." the Sindar said, turning to the two Dwarf Princes. "Your friend Balin, the negotiators, and my advisers have already begun. Let us go inside."Before they could move a single step, a shout made them all halt in their tracks."You! How dare you humiliate our Princess!"A warrior was stalking towards them, an angry expression on his face. Legolas recognized the elf as one of the ones who had wanted to spar with him, and had been present at Bereneth's defeat. So much for all of the warriors seeing that their Princess's actions were arrogant and rude."You impudent peasant! You filth!" the warrior snarled. "You have no honor! You used underhand, vile tactics to defeat our Princess! How dare you dishonor her you cowardly homeless trash!"The watchers could not believe the warrior's gall. He had insulted Esgal, in front of the Elvenking of all people! Thranduil's entire visage darkened but before he could speak, Gimli leapt forward, grabbing the warrior by the front of his shirt and forcing him down to his level."Listen here you piece of orc-scum!" the dwarf snarled. "I've only just met Esgal, but I know for a fact that he is one of the bravest people I know! He's been fighting for and defending this realm for a while, and yet you stand there and insult him like a whining elfling. Learn some respect or leave him alone, bastard! Or I'll hit you with my axe so hard that you'll land in Mount Doom!"With great strength he shoved the stunned warrior to the ground, glaring at the elf until he staggered to his feet and fled. There was a heartbeat of shocked silence before the younger Prince of Erebor spoke."Who would have thought that Gimli, son of Gloin, would befriend an elf." Kili teased.Gimli scowled at him. "Shut up..."His embarrassment and anger melted away when he saw the smile on Legolas's face."Thank you." the elf said in his soft, musical voice.Gimli turned red, shifting uncomfortably. "Yeah... Anytime.""Good." Glorfindel spoke suddenly, startling them all. "I can trust you to ward off any idiots that try to hurt my brother then. Esgal is too nice for his own good. If someone bothers him, could you beat them up for me?" There was a glint in the Elf Lord's eye that stunned the group from Rivendell, inwardly pleased Thranduil, and made the dwarves grin."I can take care of myself, Gwador." Legolas muttered.Next to him, Aglar felt anger course through him and heaviness settle in his gut, making it tighten. His fists clenched and his lips pursed when he heard Esgal call the Balrog Slayer "brother". He was confused by the sudden surge of jealously that ripped through his veins, making his eyes darken. Why should it matter to him what the assassin called the Vanyar?"Of course you can." Glorfindel said, unaware of the burning glare Aglar was sending his way. "But you're still too nice. You won't hurt idiot elves that insult you. Gimli will." the Vanyar smirked darkly. "And so will I."No one doubted his words, and Thranduil did not protest about the Balrog Slayer threatening his warriors. If they hurt or insulted Esgal, they deserved it in his opinion. "Now that that is over with, let's go inside." the Elvenking said calmly.The group began to file into the front door, but Aglar held back."Esgal. May I speak with you a moment?" the silver-haired elf asked cautiously.Legolas hesitated a moment before nodding. He stopped outside the door, Glorfindel pausing as well. The assassin gave his big brother a smile."It's all right." he murmured.The golden-haired Elf Lord did not move. The Vanyar pinned the silver-haired elf with a glare, an obvious message in his eyes. Hurt him and Crown Prince or not, I will make you wish you had never been born.Glorfindel turned to Legolas, giving him a bright, encouraging smile before he walked into the palace. The assassin and Aglar stood far apart, looking away from each other as a tense silence fell over them. The Crown Prince cleared his throat awkwardly."I wish to apologize for my sister's behavior... and my own. I judged you based on rumor and the words of others, rather than let myself see for myself who you are. I know I haven't been the most... pleasant elf around you, but I would like to start over. I would like a second chance." He offered his hand.Legolas did not hesitate, taking the Prince's hand and giving it a firm shake. "Your suspicion can be forgiven. I am Esgal, an elf of Mirkwood that just happens to be an assassin."Aglar smiled, a tiny grin. "And I am Aglar, also an elf of Mirkwood, but one who happens to be the Crown Prince."Legolas put on a thoughtful face, head tipping to the side. "I have heard that Crown Princes are arrogant, aloof, prissy elves."The silver-haired chuckled. "And I have heard that assassins are violent, emotionless weapons."The violet-eyed elf's purple orbs glinted. "Let's prove each other wrong, shall we?"And Aglar found himself smiling a full grin, one that revealed his white teeth and lit up his face. "I think that we shall."And the second chance began.LOTRLOTRLOTRThe orc halted, breathing heavily, and sat down hard on a rock. It was far from Mirkwood, far from the elf, man, and dwarf that had killed its kin. It closed its eyes, testing itself, and was pleased to find that its bond with its master had returned."My master..." it called mentally.There was a moment of silence before the Witch-King responded. "Report.""All of my kin are dead." the orc said. "They were all killed. But I have found the Hidden One, though I do not know which warrior he was. Three warriors killed my kin. An elf, a man, and a dwarf. Then two Wizards came—""They do not matter," the Witch-King interrupted. He knew it was not the Wizards that blocked his sight. "The elf, man, and dwarf. Describe them to me."The orc did, confusion clouding its thoughts as it was unable to show what he had seen and what the elf, man, and dwarf had looked like. Instead it described them in amazing detail, from their weapons to their eye color. Every fact was passed on from servant to Lord, and the Witch-King was easily able to identify the elf, man, and dwarf.The man was Estel, adopted son of Elrond. The Witch-King knew that no human could block his master's power, and did not care about him. The dwarf was Gimli son of Gloin of the Erebor quest. The dwarves were stubborn, but they would not be able to block his Sight either. Dwarves could not perform such magic.Then there was the elf. The elf he was able to identify the moment the orc mentioned violet eyes. The elf who he had not thought about in years. The elf who he had believed was dead, who he thought had been slain long ago, but had only been in hiding for so many years.The Witch-King dismissed his servant, ordering it back to Minas Morgul, and leaned back in his chair, deep in thought. So, Legolas Thranduilion is still alive. It is amazing that he kept himself hidden for so long. Then again, it seems he is more of a threat than I once thought. You taught your apprentice well, Ciaran. I will give you that much.The Witch-King knew that he would not be able to find Legolas, and also knew that sending an assassin after the elf would be useless. That was made obvious when the violet-eyed elf killed the two assassins he sent after the Elvenking. And now the Witch-King's fears had finally been realized. Legolas had revealed and allied himself with the elves.He is not a threat, merely a small complication, the Nazgûl Lord thought. It does not matter that Saruman and I will be unable to spy upon the elves when he is with them. Knowing their movements and plans do not affect my Master's coming. Once my Master has come to Middle-earth, the elven realms will fall, along with the rest of this world. The fools will not know what has happened until it is too late. LOTRLOTRLOTRFrom within his prison, the Darkness heard it all.An elf, a dwarf, and a man... he thought.An elf, man, and dwarf fighting side by side against the Shadow. Such a grouping was unheard of, each race keeping its distance from the other. But the news of the different races allying themselves would not have bothered the Darkness, if not for that fact that they were three warriors. Not only that, but according to the orcs the elf used a bow and arrows, the man used a sword, and the dwarf used an axe.An elf, a man, and a dwarf. Three warriors from three races that normally hated and mistrusted each other, yet had quickly become comrades in arms.Three allies.Three races.Three warriors.Three Weapons. A Bow with Arrows, a Sword, and an Axe.Three Wielders. An Elf, a Man, and a Dwarf...No. He was being paranoid and over-thinking the situation. It did not matter that a dwarf, man, and elf had become fast friends. Such quick attachments were quite common among mortals, and the elf had been raised by one, so it was not that surprising. He was looking too deeply into this. He was seeing connections where they did not exist. It was just a coincidence. Each warrior had merely used the favored weapon of his race. There was nothing deeper than that.The Darkness scoffed at his own behavior and feelings, annoyed with himself. There was little chance that they were the Three. It was foolish of him to think that the first elf, man, and dwarf trio he heard of could wield the Weapons. That was if the Weapons even existed, and Lorien the Valar was merely trying to scare him with false prophecy. Yes, that was it. The Valar were not cold enough to make elves create the Black Weapons, thus sending them to their deaths, and the elves of old were not brave enough to take the steps on their own to create them.The Weapons were only a story told to make him rethink his escape. The Valar knew of his power and what he would do to Arda once he got out. And he would get out. Only one more piece of the puzzle was needed for him to be free of his wretched prison. And when he did, all of Arda would tremble. When he broke free, Black Weapons or no, not even the Darkness of Morgoth would be able to compare.He would destroy Middle-earth.He would raze the Undying Lands.He would decimate Valinor.He would annihilate all of Arda.And in the end, only he would remain.In the end, there would only be Darkness.LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: Well... that was menacing. O_O I had fun with the Royal Fight in the beginning. Even though I made Bereneth, it was fun to have Thranduil kick her off her high horse. You'll have to wait and see whether Bereneth is becoming a Shadowed Elf or whether her negative emotions are her own. Legolas's fear about his dodging instinct getting one of his allies hurt/killed was born after I watched The Hunger Games. In a scene, Katniss dodged a spear, and it hit Rue instead of her, which caused the girl to die. :'( Legolas was already in his "assassin mentality" from battling the first wave of orcs. That is why he did not think of freeing Aragorn and Gimli immediately. Because even with all his caring and concern for allies, Legolas was raised an assassin and hasn't dealt with friends in a battle before. His first instincts are to kill the enemy and survive the fight. He needs to learn how to fight alongside others in skirmishes. That will be a big part of next chapter.If you read last chapter's ending Author's Note in the first hour the chapter was posted, you accidentally got a spoiler for this chapter. Somehow (stupid laptop...) part of the A/N for this chapter ended up in last chapter's A/N. I deleted it as soon as I noticed it. This is what it said: "Has anyone ever had elves put spikes in their braids before? It seems to me that their long hair would let enemies grab it, and use it to drag them around if they're not wearing a helm. Didn't Glorfindel die because the Balrog grabbed his hair and dragged him down with it?" Again, stupid laptop... STOP DOING THAT! :( One thing I need help with though: Have I had anyone touch Legolas's hair in any of the "Third Age 2956" chapters? He has had the spikes the whole time so if they did, I need to change that.(WARNING! SPOILER! MAJOR SPOILER! DO NOT READ IF YOU DO NOT WANT TO KNOW! I'M SERIOUS ABOUT THIS! TURN AWAY NOW IF YOU DON'T WANT SPOILERS! LAST CHANCE! IF YOU DO NOT WANT SPOILERS, DO NOT READ!) Iwillbeblunt:TheDarknessisnotSauron,anditisnotMorg oth..YesIstuckthewordstogetheronpurposesohopefully peoplethatdonotwanttoknowwon' 'swhyImadethisA/Nsolongtotrytohidethisforthosewhod on'twannaknow. (END OF SPOILER! IT IS SAFE NOW!)Ew. Long A/N. :(Thanks to everyone who read, favorited, followed, and reviewed!Responses to Guest reviews:To "Guest" (1): Thank you! Legolas will tell his name to someone. (Unless I change my mind).To "Guest" (2): Thanks! Um... Just don't kill Bereneth when you're having your little "talk". I need her back in relatively one piece. Preferably with all of her limbs and with her heart still beating. :P You saw what Thranduil did. I love Glorfindel. And Radagast. They are such awesome but underused and underrated characters. Maybe I'll inspire people to use them more! That would be epic! :D No, Estel did not fall off of anything... this time. (sniggers)To "Anony-Mouse": Thanks! I'm so happy that you love it! :D Legolas really does need more brotherly love. :) That's why I love to write scenes where he is with Glorfindel. Legolas feels safe enough with him to act playful and his age. (He really is a young elf still, and will be for a long time). You saw how angry Thranduil was. I hope you were satisfied with his "talk" with Bereneth.To "Badass female": Cool! I might check it out. Thank you!To "Iluvlegolas": Thank you! Part two will be a part of this story. Glorfindel will dim his glow whenever he enters Mirkwood, to try to be less painful for the shadowed trees. My laptop is still being a stupid jerk. :(To "Lucy": Thanks for reviewing! No, it's not Christmas. :P I wish it was...To "Dee": Thank you and you're welcome. :DTo "Issy" Thanks! I know I need to add more chapters like that. I have a couple ideas for more bonding, family, and friendship chapters. (I plan on doing a prank war chapter with Legolas, Glorfindel, and Fael vs Elladan, Elrohir, and Aragorn, with Thranduil, Elrond, and Erestor thrown in. Plus another encounter with Bereneth in said chapter... ) Yes, Thranduil subconsciously knows. Megilag, Barhad, and Fael accept Esgal. Fael is his friend and feels a close bond with him. Bereneth doesn't trust him and is being a... witch-with-a-"b". Hannel also doesn't trust him but will keep her thoughts to herself and keeps her distance. Aglar is trying to get to know him. To do with Legolas's "death": Thranduil clings to hope even though he doesn't consciously acknowledge it. Fael, Hannel, Aglar, and Barhad accept that he is "dead", but become quiet or cold if Legolas is mentioned. Bereneth still becomes angry and upset whenever someone mentions him. Megilag is beginning to recover, and shift back towards his old personality. It is a subconscious thing because "Esgal" is there.To "TiTaN": Thank you! That means a lot to me.To "emi": Thanks! Most of Berenth's actions were fueled by jealousy, arrogance, and a need to show off. She is going to regret how she treated/is going to treat Esgal very much at a later time. You saw a bit of the jealousy. Legolas is eventually going to take part in a meeting... Its going to be interesting. To "Guest" (3): Thank you!To "Devil Red": Thank you for reviewing and you're welcome. :) Those that can sense presences like Legolas and Elrohir can identify people by their glow. Those that cannot sense presences cannot identify elves that way.To "Guest"(4): Thanks! Yeah, the dwarf was Gimli. Good job with guessing it was him! There will be much bonding between Legolas and Thranduil. Some of it is next chapter, I think. To "FalenOfTheForest": Thanks for reviewing! There will be much more antagonism between those two.To "Naomi": Thank you!To "Jade": Thanks! She does need a lot of guidance. Will it help? You'll have to wait and see. This is going to be a major AU story so there won't be a "Lord of the Rings". However, you are right that they won't find Legolas until after a bunch of stuff happens.To "SilverNM": Thank you!To "Guest"(5): Thanks! I agree. Poor Legolas... the elves are so mean!To "Angel": Thank you! Yes, he will.Please review!


********** Page 19 **********

A/N: A very special "THANK YOU!" to L.J. Gryphon for sneaking out of the shadows and giving me the awesome new cover for this story. THAAANNNNNKKKK YYYYYOUUUUUUUUUU! :D :D :DI did it again. I added another TWO chapters I did not originally plan for. Whatever. More chapters is good! For those who asked, this means that The Present/Today is in four chapters, and Part Two begins in five. The first part of this chapter is rather humorous, but the second part is much more serious. This is my first attempt in doing something so humorous... we'll see what happens.This chapter is one year after last chapter.LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Eighteen: Pranks, Bonding, and MeetingsThird Age 2957 (54 years ago...)The moment Legolas stepped into the Last Homely House, he knew something was amiss. The home of Elrond, his family, and his close advisers and friends was silent. Unlike usual, there were no servants bustling about, and no warriors walking through the city as they headed out on patrol or to go train. Instead, the halls were empty and everything was silent.Cautiously, the assassin backed away from the front door, instead choosing to enter through a second-story window. He came into what appeared to be a study, books and papers lying morosely on a desk in the center of the room. The violet-eyed elf unsheathed a dagger and entered the hall.He could sense the presences of elves around the building, all in rooms or out in the forest. Odd, but it was almost like... they were hiding? Legolas moved soundlessly through the stone hallway, senses alert as he searched for threats. He did not sense the presences of any enemies— though the Shadowed Elves tainted energy made him cringe. All he sensed were elves, and one man. Aragorn was here then, with the twins to be exact.Suspicion crept into the assassin's thoughts but before he could follow it, a familiar cry sounded through the air. It was shocked, sharp, and slightly pained, but Legolas was moving before his mind had fully registered the sound. He recognized the voice, despite the walls between them.It was Glorfindel.The assassin sped down the hall towards where the Balrog Slayer's shout had come from, halting outside the door next to the room he knew his big brother was in. He dashed into the room, opened the window, and swung his body out and sideways to the left. He smashed through the window in the next room, landing on his feet in a battle-ready stance.His violet eyes took in the scene in front of him in a heartbeat. Glorfindel was tied to the rafters in blankets, struggling uselessly in an attempt to get down. Near the door, Aragorn, Elladan, and Elrohir were laughing hysterically as the watched the Balrog Slayer's failure to free himself from the trap."You walked right into that one, Glor— Whoa!"Elladan's taunt was cut off abruptly as Esgal leapt in through the window, shattering the glass and looking ready for battle. His violet eyes were narrowed dangerously, his knives were out, and his teeth were bared in a predatory snarl. Legolas did not speak, merely staring at the three pranksters with calculating eyes. Despite themselves, the three brothers quailed under his gaze.His arm flicked and four throwing knives flew free of his hands. The weapons sliced through the mix of ropes and blankets that had caught his brother, cutting him free. The Vanyar plummeted a couple feet before he twisted, landing with the agility taught to him by the assassin. He straightened, walked over to Legolas, and gave him a smile."Thank you, Gwador."The violet-eyed elf was still staring neutrally at the three sons of Elrond. "I suppose you three are the reason everyone is hiding in their rooms." he said flatly."Yes..." Aragorn admitted hesitantly."We were bored." Elladan explained. "Ada gave us free reign for the week. I'm surprised, seeing as how Thranduil, Bereneth, and Fael are here."Legolas's eyebrow slowly crept up his forehead, and for a moment the three perpetrators were eerily reminded of their father. "Where are they?""Thranduil and Bereneth are in Ada in his study." Elrohir reported, growing bolder since the assassin was not threatening them with pointy objects... yet. "Fael is..."The younger twin paused, and exchanged a horrified glance with his brothers. "He—""BLASTED IDIOTS! DEVIOUS FIENDS! IF YOU DON'T LET ME DOWN I SWEAR TO ERU I WILL KILL YOU ALL!" an enraged and familiar voice screamed from a distance.Aragorn paled and scratched the back of his neck awkwardly. "I think we forgot to let him down... Heh heh... Oops."Legolas was already out the door, headed towards Fael's furious shouts. He entered the dining hall and looked up. Fael was suspended close to the ceiling, dressed in what looked like a type of sheet and with black pain covering his face, his hair sticking up at odd angles. The Prince spotted the assassin and almost cried with relief."Esgal! Help me down!"The violet-eyed elf nodded and ran at the wall, scaling the stone-blocks as easily as a squirrel climbed trees. He launched off of the wall, clutching to the contraption keeping Fael aloft and forcing a surprised yelp from the elf."Careful!" he yelped, then blanched. "How did you even get up—?""Hold onto the rope but your right hand," Legolas interrupted, businesslike.Fael did as he asked, clinging to the rope. The assassin did as well, slashing through the other rope and letting it fall. The silver-haired Prince grunted as the support holding him fell away, swinging down towards the ground and forming a rope-and-bedsheet rope that would allow them to climb down closer to the ground rather than drop from the height. The two descended quickly, Fael gasping in relief as his feet touched the ground. Wild-eyed, the Prince hugged the assassin, making him gasp in surprise, and was almost sobbing into his shoulder. Legolas patted Fael's hair awkwardly, trying to pull away, but the Prince refused to let him go."Thank the Valar that you are here! They've been pranking and ganging up on me all week!" the hysterical wailed."You're not the only one." Glorfindel muttered, crossing his arms and glowering at the three dark-haired males, who put on expressions of innocence no one fell for.At that moment the assassin broke out of the frazzled silver-haired elf's hold and turned to the sons of Elrond. He did not break his silence, and only stared at them, an odd emotion in his eyes. Then he smiled, and Aragorn and the twins swore it was the most terrifying smile they had ever seen.He spoke, in a voice that was soft and calm, but chilled the three to the bone. "This means war."The assassin walked away, and instinctively Glorfindel and Fael went with him, exiting the dining room and leaving the dark-haired males standing frozen next to the makeshift rope. Elladan slowly turned to his brothers, face pale."We're dead."The others could not contradict his statement.LOTRLOTRLOTRThe next morning, three screams were heard as three certain pranksters awoke from their sleep. Elrond and Thranduil— who were conversing about nothing in particular while walking through the halls— halted in their discussion, looking in the direction of the bedrooms with surprise. A snicker from the shadows made them turn, and both were again stunned to see Fael standing there, a triumphant look upon his face."What has pleased you so greatly, my son?" the Elvenking asked hesitantly, not sure he wanted to know.The silver-haired Prince bared his teeth in a sadistic grin. "Justice has been served." he proclaimed darkly and walked away, cackling.The two Elf Lords looked at each other, wearing almost identical expressions of worry and alarm. Then Thranduil broke eye contact, shrugging amiably."They brought it upon themselves, Elrond."The Peredhel just sighed heavily. "...I'm going back to my study to hide."He hurried away. A moment later, the sounds of rapid, stumbling footsteps sounded through the halls, heading towards the Elvenking. He stepped out of the way as three.. ellith?... with shocking pink hair burst into the hall, shouting and ranting in rather manly voices."I cannot believe he actually did this!" the "elleth" in the blue dress cried, and the Sindar recognized Aragorn's voice.Was that really Aragorn beneath all of that pink and cosmetics? Ah, yes it was. Thranduil could see that stubbly beard the Ranger was wont to have."I can't walk in this!" the "elleth" in the purple dress complained, and by the tone, the Elvenking guessed it was Elladan. The older twin hoisted up the skirt of his dress, muttering angrily. "Where could he have hidden our clothes!"The last "elleth", whose red dress clashed terribly with his pink hair, spoke up. "He probably put them out in the woods. He wouldn't have burned them right?""I think he might have." Aragorn said darkly. "He was pretty angry that we pranked his Gwador and Fael all week..."The Ranger trailed off, having just spotted their stunned spectator standing at the edge of the hall. The man turned a red so bright it was visible through the cosmetics Esgal had put on the man. The Sindar did not know where Esgal had learned how to apply make-up like that, but whoever had taught him did a fantastic job. On women, the blush, eyeliner, and color the assassin had added would have enhanced the wearer's beauty to the extreme. On the males, it was absolutely hilarious."Elvenking Thranduil." Aragorn squeaked, drawing the twins attention to the stunned elf. "Um... You wouldn't happen to know where Esgal put our clothes, would you?"Thranduil stared. And stared. And stared some more. Then his composure shattered. "HA HAHA HA HA HA!"The Elvenking guffawed, laughing so hard his stomach hurt. He doubled over, chortling in a most not-elfish way while the three "victims" looked on with mortification. They backed away from the cackling Sindar, fleeing in order to continue their quest to find appropriate clothes. They knew they would not be able to find the assassin responsible for their humiliation, which only made the prank all the better. For Esgal, that was."We need to exploit his weaknesses and draw him out into the open!" Elladan hissed, thoughts filled with ideas on how to get back at the violet-eyed elf.With that in mind the three— after borrowing clothes from a few sniggering warriors and washing the cosmetics off of their faces— began to hunt down Fael and Glorfindel. They would have looked quite murderous and dangerous, if not for the fact that their hair was still pink. Whatever Esgal had used, it was not coming out.Their targets were not in their rooms, the kitchen, dining room, training grounds, studies, Elrond's study— which they were specifically told to stay away from— or healing ward. That left one place they could be if they had not fled to the woods.The three now pink-haired males crept to the library door, opening it carefully and peering inside. Sure enough, there their targets were, reading books and smirking to themselves. And next to them, dusting the shelves, was Erestor. There was only one place where pranks were not allowed, ever, if you valued your life. Erestor did not tolerate anyone threatening his precious books, and if they did... the result was not pretty. As it was, the adviser could smell a prank from a mile away, and would not let the three sons of Elrond into the library at all if he sensed something was up.And so, when Erestor turned away from his dusting and glared at the three pink-haired pranksters, they did not bother stepping foot in the adviser's sanctuary. Slowly, like they were backing away from a mother bear with cubs, they quietly shut the door, running off down the hall so fast one would think a Ringwraith was chasing them.Once they were far enough away, Aragorn turned to his brothers, scowling deeply. "Now what?""They can't stay in there forever!" Elrohir growled, pushing his pink hair out of his face."Who are you talking about?" Esgal's voice sounded from behind them, sweetly innocent.The three turned towards him like cats sighting an injured bird."Get him!" Elladan shouted.The assassin took off running, laughing all the way as the enraged trio ran after him. Esgal led them on a merry chase through the Hidden Valley, mush faster than them and able to easily keep ahead by using his agility and acrobatics. He ran on rooftops, sprang off of walls, and dodged through tight spaces without slowing in the slightest. His three pursuers, meanwhile, were not as agile, and were forced to run after him on the ground.After a half hour of chasing, Esgal abruptly halted in a clearing near the Last Homely House, just inside the forest. Instantly on guard, the trio spread out around the assassin, watching him warily."Hello Estel!" the violet-eyed elf said chirpily. "I love what you've done with your hair."The ranger glowered at him. "Tell me how to get this out!" he commanded.Esgal's head tipped and he smiled infuriatingly at the three. "Why should I?""Because if you do not..." Elladan threatened, stepping forward. "We will prank you so—""You'd have to catch me first." the assassin pointed out perkily."We have caught you." Elrohir proclaimed. "Three to one. I'm liking these odds."A glint appeared in the assassin's eyes. "You should know better than to rely on superior numbers. But I suppose that I'm feeling nice today. You wash out the hair dye with alcohol.."Aragorn blinked in surprise. "Alcohol?""Yes. Wine, beer, ale. Any kind will do." Esgal said, still smiling innocently. Then the grin shifted, turning into a predatory smirk. "You know what? I feel terrible about ruining your lovely hair... Let my friends help you fix it."Around them, the trees rustled, and the Noldor half-elves and Dunedan human realized they had forgotten a very important detail about a certain Wood-elf. The Light trees around Rivendell liked him more than them.Esgal's expression was triumphant and sadistically gleeful. "How are you liking these odds?" he asked in mock-curiosityThe three pink-haired males looked up, eyes widening in horror as the trees upturned the barrels of alcohol they had in their branches, the contents rushing down towards the pink-haired males.Aragorn had time for a single word. "No—"Then the river of smelly liquid was upon them.LOTRLOTRLOTRThe prank war was declared over later that day, and it was undeniably Legolas's team that won. The twins and Aragorn admitted defeat after falling into a syrup trap set by the assassin and being stuck in it while the assassin and their former victims cheerfully stood there and mocked them. After five hours, the three promised to never prank Fael or Glorfindel, or try to prank Legolas, ever again. Or else.The three still smelled like stale ale from the trees dousing them. Surprisingly, the mixture actually did take out the pink hair dye, returning their hair to its natural dark shade. Having decided that putting the prank war behind him was in his best interest, Aragorn questioned the assassin about the dye, curious as to why only alcohol would wash it out."The dye is special," Legolas explained. "Its meant for use in undercover missions where a change in hair color is necessary. It would not do for the dye to wash out in the middle of the mission, so having a specific neutralizer that the person will most likely not come into contact with is beneficial.""And the cosmetics?" the Ranger demanded. "You did... surprisingly well with them."Legolas snickered despite himself. "Did I make you feel pretty, Hope?"The Ranger turned red and glared at him. "No. But I've seen human women wearing make-up."The assassin sobered, shrugging. "It is another disguise technique. If I wanted to, I could use cosmetics to make myself look like an old human man.""Your father really did teach you a lot, didn't he?" Aragorn murmured, impressed."Yes..." Legolas said softly, looking away. The distant grief prodded at him once before fading, and he put on a determined face. "Have you seen Glorfindel? I need to give him something. I didn't have the chance before.""Last I checked, he was in the training grounds." the man offered.The assassin nodded in thanks and hurried towards the spot, only to halt in the middle of the hall. His head turned in the direction of the main entrance and he frowned thoughtfully. New elves had come to Rivendell, and were just arriving in the Last Homely House. They seemed familiar, but only distantly so. Still, two of their auras were shockingly bright, even brighter than Glorfindel's when he let his glow out fully.Curious, the violet-eyed elf headed towards the main entrance. He leapt leapt up to the roof and ran along them, leaping from rooftop to rooftop. He halted on the one closest to the main entrance, peering over the edge carefully.Elrond had finally crept out from hiding in his study, and was standing beside Erestor, Thranduil, Fael, Bereneth, and the twins— who were now dressed in their own clothes after Legolas had finally given them back. They were greeting six elves, but Legolas's focus was on the golden-haired elleth and ellon clothed in white. Both glowed with the brilliant light he had sensed, bright, powerful, and beautiful. He could identify them now, their companions as well, and subconsciously checked to make sure his mental shields were fully up. No offense to the Lady of the Light, but he did not want his memories explored.For down on the ground, being greeted by the Rivendell party, were Lady Galadriel and Lord Celeborn of Lothlorien. The Lord and Lady of the Light were indeed a sight to behold, and seeing them with their inner lights blazing, Legolas could not help but feel his old insecurities creeping up on him. He banished them immediately, reminding himself of the promise he had made in Mirkwood.None of the elves had noticed him yet, so he took the time to study the Lord and Lady's four companions. The one in the red cloak was Haldir, the Marchwarden of Lorien. Beside him were two elves that the assassin recognized as the warrior's brothers, Rumil and Orophin. The last elf— an elleth— was being hugged warmly by the twins. She had dark hair, and even from a distance Legolas could see her silver eyes.She must be Arwen, Elrond's daughter, he thought.Their conversation drifted over to his sharp ears."I didn't know you were coming for a visit, Arwen," Elrohir was saying happily."I was unaware as well," Elrond added, looking at the Lord and Lady. Concern flashed across his features, making his brow furrow and his mouth dip into a frown. "Has something happened?""No." Celeborn answered lightly. "We just wished to come and visit family."The Peredhel relaxed, a weary smile appearing on his face. "That is a luxury we rarely receive lately."Arwen broke her hug with Elladan, her nose wrinkling slightly. "You both smell terrible. Like a bar. Did you drink too much last night?"The twins turned red. "Uh, well." Elladan stuttered."You see..." Elrohir began."They got in a prank war and lost," Fael revealed helpfully.His friends glared at him."Prank war?" Erestor scoffed. "It was more like a prank massacre. Their hair was turned pink, they woke up in dresses and with women's dresses on, they had alcohol dumped on them, they were chased by a variety of animals including squirrels, a deer, foxes and our horses—""We remember, all right?" Elladan snapped irritably.Arwen stared at him, alarm in her eyes at the thought of someone beating her brothers in pranking. She paused, worry becoming more evident. "Is Estel all right? Why isn't he here?""He is inside somewhere, most likely in the kitchen getting food." the younger twin rushed to assure his sister. "We didn't know you were coming, remember?"The tension in the Evenstar's posture faded and she smiled wryly. "So you did not take revenge on him for pranking you?"The twins scowled at her. "You think it was Estel who managed to defeat us?" Elladan growled, insulted.Up on the roof, Legolas tensed.It was Haldir who asked the inevitable question. "Then who was it?" He knew how good the infamous twins were at pranking, and was curious as to who had managed to out-prank them so thoroughly.The hiding assassin closed his eyes, breathing out deeply. I am not afraid of their reactions. I am not ashamed of who I am. If they are confrontational and cold, it does not matter, he told himself, and knew it was the truth. He was not afraid anymore. And even though he would rather avoid Bereneth, that was no reason to stay hiding. He leapt down to the ground, silent as a shadow, and spoke in his soft, lilting voice. "That would be me."All of the elves except Elrond, Thranduil, Galadriel, and Celeborn jumped in surprise. The fiery Princess of Mirkwood started scowling the moment she spotted the assassin, but Legolas ignored her, walking up to stand next to the Elvenking. The Sindar subconsciously shifted closer to the young elf, flashing him a reassuring smile.Legolas found himself looking into bright blue eyes as the Lady of the Light looked upon him. She looked as young as any of the Eldar, but her eyes revealed her true wisdom and age. There was knowing in her gaze, her eyes having seen many things that were, are, and might yet be. The assassin could not focus on the other elves, because he knew deep inside himself that it was Galadriel that needed to accept him. If she did, the other Lotlorien elves would as well. After a pause that seemed to stretch on, but only lasted a short moment, the golden-haired elleth spoke."Hello, young one." the beautiful Lady murmured. "I am glad you have chosen to reveal yourself to us at last."And just like that, everyone relaxed."Daernaneth, Daeradar, Arwen," Elrohir began. "This is Esgal... He's the one that defeated us so thoroughly..." The twin added grudgingly."You pranked Fael and Gwador all week." Legolas said flatly. "You deserved it.""Gwador?" Haldir repeated with surprise. "You have a brother?""He and Lord Glorfindel are heart-brothers." Elrond explained for the young elf.The three Lothlorien brothers and Arwen looked at the assassin with a mixture of surprise and respect.Legolas internally winced. Why must they always stare at me? He lamented silently, unnerved.Oddly enough, it was Galadriel that came to his rescue. "Could you walk with me, Esgal?" she asked him.There was something in her voice that made the violet-eyed elf paused. He looked into her solemn, wise eyes, and realized it was not a random request. She wished to speak with him for some reason. The assassin nodded and slowly the two elves walked out of the Last Homely House, strolling leisurely beneath the trees.It was the Noldor that broke the silence. "You are quite the unique elf, young one."Her tone was not cruel or judging, but Legolas still tensed slightly. "Yes. I am who I am.""Indeed." she said. "You remained hidden for a long time, even my Sight unable to see you. May I ask why you kept in the shadows and avoided the elves for so long?"The assassin shifted nervously, looking up at the trees for comfort. "I... physically hid from the elves because I was afraid that they would judge me, at first. Then I gained a... feeling whenever I thought of revealing myself to large groups of them. It was only later that I learned I was unconsciously hiding from the elves who are..." he stopped, wondering if the Lady knew about the Shadowed Elves."I am aware of the Darkness that has taken hold in some of our kin." she told him. "It was not them you hid from, but the Darkness inside.""Do you know what it is, My Lady?" he asked her.She did not respond, looking upon him with eyes too wise for her deceptively young face. "Even now you hide," Galadriel murmured. "Your glow is suppressed deep within you.""Can you sense it?" Legolas asked hesitantly.She smiled mysteriously. "Yes and no. I know it is there but I cannot sense it. It is your protection, and your shield. In turn, it is also protected by remaining within you instead of being out in the harshness of this world."She turned away from him, reaching out and touching one of the trees around them. It reacted to her touch, rustling softly. A sad expression crossed the fair elleth's face and her wise blue eyes slowly closed. "The elves are fading, losing our strength and power. It is the least prominent in our kin in Mirkwood, but the Darkness is harming us even there." She looked at him with knowing eyes. "You know why.""Yes." he stated simply. "Elves are creatures of Light, and their glow is an extension of their soul. The touch of the Shadow is harming them, slowly weakening them.""Yes." Galadriel said. "That is why so many of our kin seek healing in the West. That is why, after the Shadow is defeated, we must leave Middle-earth. We may linger for a few centuries more, but we must eventually depart, or fade. For even after the Darkness is destroyed, it will linger in this land, for its hold is too deep to be vanquished completely. The Golden Trees will die, the old ways will fade, and this world will become Man's."She stepped forward and placed a hand on his arm, looking upon him with all of her wisdom. "But you are different, young Esgal. You shielded yourself, taking your glow within you to protect it, strengthening it by keeping it away from the Darkness's touch." Her gaze darkened. "I cannot see your future, your mind, or your soul, but there is one thing my instincts tell me that I must ask you to do."Galadriel became firm and determined, the image of the Lady of the Light, and spoke softly into Legolas's ear. "Do not let your inner light shine. Do not allow it out from within you. Keep it safe around your heart and soul. Keep it strong and growing stronger, free of the Darkness's poison.""Why?" the assassin asked, confused."A Darkness is coming to this land, one of great power that even I do not know the extent of. An ancient creature that never should have been awakened is coming, so deep in the Shadow that I cannot see nor identify it."The Lady of Lothlorien looked to the south, where far in the distance Mordor lay. "Something has happened that was not meant to, disrupting the flow of time and changing the future. Not all prophecies are meant to be, and sometimes new prophecies are formed because of an action unforeseen by all. I fear that Sauron will not be the Great Darkness that we must defeat in order for peace to come to Arda. But I do know this... you will be needed before the end of this war, in more ways than you know.""My Lady, you are wise and you see and know so much..." The violet-eyed elf stared at her, slightly overwhelmed. Then he cleared his throat. "Do you... do you know who my family is?"There was such fragile hope in his voice that Galadriel felt a piece of her heart shatter. She pulled him into a hug, the elf stiffening before relaxing against her. She gently touched his hair, avoiding his braids, and held him close as if by doing so she could erase all of the pain, sorrow, and loss he had suffered.Legolas let himself stay in the Noldor's embrace, trying to recall if his mother had ever held him like this. He could not remember. He could not even bring up the memory of her death anymore. He did not remember her face, her hair color, or her eyes. His last memory from before Dol Guldur had faded, only the knowledge that his mother had been killed by orcs remaining. Now, reminded of that fact, Legolas wanted to weep."I do not know where you come from, young one." Galadriel said softly, eyes distant. "Your past, present, and future are all hidden from me. But do not lose hope, Esgal. When the time is right, you will find them."If they are even alive... the pale blonde-haired elf thought but did not say. "Thank you." he whispered, and pulled away. "I must go now. I have to find Gwa— Glorfindel."The Light Lady laughed, a beautiful heartening sound. "I am glad that Glorfindel has found a brother." she said with a half-smile. "Go find him."Unsure of what to say, Legolas bowed slightly and hurried away, finally heading off to find his brother.LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: The next chapter is a continuation of this one. I originally had a lot more stuff in this one, but it was going onto about 25 pages so I split it in two. It was pretty much a decision of "Do I update today and Monday with shorter-ish chapters, or do I only update Monday with a really long chapter because the second half isn't finished yet?" Some stuff I said would be in here is, but other stuff is in next chapter. If it isn't here, it will be there.I could have made the prank war longer, but I'm not too sure on my humor-writing abilities. I hope I did okay... (shrugs) I dunno...Thank you all for reviewing! I love all of the feedback I keep getting! :DResponses to Guest reviews:To "emi": Thank you! Legolas is going to fight the Witch-King. It is going to be an epic battle. Yes, the AU part is going to start soon. In... four chapters actually. Unless I add another chapter again. To "Anony-Mouse": Thank you! Seriously, thanks! It was your review that made me realize that a certain idiotic laptop DELETED PART OF MY A/N! :( The part that was deleted explained that it was not the "M" person you mentioned in your review. It has something to do with him though. Yeah, its a major AU. If it wasn't I would get bored with writing it reeaaaalllllyyyyy fast. I like to have freedom when writing and be able to my own story and plots. :)To "Jade": Thanks! There will be Esgal and Thranduil interaction next chapter. To "Guest"(1): Thank you!To "Guest(2): Thanks! The reveal won't be for a while. To "SilverNM": Thank you!To "phoebe": Thanks!To "Em": Thank you! Warriors are allowed to use live/sharp weapons in spars when they are 500 or older. Right now, the youngest warrior in Mirkwood (and the "youngest" elf in Middle-earth as far as the elves know) is about 700 in my mind. That is about a 200 year difference between Legolas and that elf. Legolas is the youngest elf in Middle-earth, and was/will be the last one born there. The elves do not know that he is so young. They know he is "young", but they don't know he is that young. He acts so serious and quiet around most of them (not Glorfindel) that many actually believe he is over 1000 years old. The ones who know him a little better think he is around 700, 800 years old. Glorfindel's guess is the closest, thinking Esgal's age is about 600. To elves, each other's ages don't really matter so it is not like they would ask Esgal how old he is. To "Kryst": Thanks for reviewing! To "Issy": Thank you! There should be more detail with the brothers' feelings at least next chapter. I love the advise you keep giving me and the hints to how to make this story even better! Because of your request, I added a whole new section to next chapter. (That was originally a part of this one but got too long... :P) Gimli will appear again as "the Present" rolls around... four chapters away.To "Naomi": Thanks! There is going to be a flashback as to why Legolas is not staying in the Mirkwood palace next chapter. Legolas will learn how to fight well with others next chapter. I know that for a fact because I have those sections done. :) Gimli will be bashing heads in when he returns, don't worry.Please review!


********** Page 20 **********

A/N: It is a good thing I split last chapter up. This one is 29 pages. O_O' That is long. I could have split it up again, but I had it ALL done so I decided to post it as a looooonnnnngggggg chapter. :PThis chapter includes appearances from not-so-important OCs that have shown up before. Here's a list just so you have an idea of who they are:Rainor: warrior of Rivendell, was there when Amulug was exiledUilos: warrior of Rivendell, was there when Amulug was exiledThimben: warrior of Mirkwood, was there when Fael fell into the river, went with Thranduil, Bereneth, and Fael to RivendellHeled: warrior of Mirkwood, was there when Fael fell into the river, went with Thranduil, Bereneth, and Fael to RivendellEnjoy the loooonnnngggggg chapter. :)LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Nineteen: Trust MeThird Age 2957Legolas headed towards the training grounds he knew that Glorfindel occupied. The Vanyar was in the archery range, letting arrows fly at the targets hanging from the trees. Each shaft hit a bullseye, the Balrog Slayer moved on to the next target, unwilling to waste arrows by splitting his previous shot in half. He stopped shooting the moment the assassin came into view."Gwador." Glorfindel greeted. "Are you here to practice?"The pale blonde-haired elf shook his head. "No. I came to give you something."He retrieved said items from his pocket, placing them gently in Glorfindel's hand. The Balrog Slayer stared wordlessly at the thin, spike metal strands in his palm. Each one was carefully wrapped into a coil, but he could still see the length of each impossibly thin strand. Whoever had created the spikes must be a talented metalworker indeed."You got them.""Of course I did. It only took so long because of the length of your hair." Legolas explained.While the violet-eyed elf's hair only went to the small of his back, Glorfindel's went down to the back of his thighs. Despite what had occurred... before he had been resurrected, the Vanyar was determined to keep his locks long. Elves did not make the decision to cut their hair lightly.But the spikes in the golden-haired warrior's hands were already making him feel better about his choice to keep his hair at its current length. Glorfindel touched the braid-spikes gingerly with a forefinger, careful not to cut himself. Even with his caution, he could feel the points on his fingers."They're very sharp. How do I put them on?""Allow me." Legolas offered.Glorfindel unwound his warrior braids and the violet-eyed elf retrieved one of the braid-spikes. He inserted a small lock of the Vanyar's hair through the tiny hoop at the top of the spikes. Then he gently gripped both the braid-spike and hair by their ends with his thumb and forefinger. Expertly, Legolas began to wind up the braid, using the spike-and-hair as one of the three sections."The trick is to hold some hair with the spike, and hold both by their ends," he explained as he braided. "It hides the spikes better, and keeping your hands on the ends will prevent you from being injured.""That is good to know." Glorfindel commented. "Can I sleep in these?"Legolas frowned, touching his brother's hair and testing its thickness. "Yes. Most people who have the braid-spikes can. It would not help if the spikes pricked your scalp every time you moved." He finished the braid, tying it. "Would you like to try?"The Vanyar nodded in assent and took another one of the braid-spikes, carefully braiding his hair with the secret little weapon wound in. Using the assassin's warnings and advice, he finished his braids without hurting himself. Glorfindel swung his head back and forth, his hair swinging around. He felt little added weight from the spikes, the light, thin metal unnoticeable visibly and almost weightless. There was no pricking when the braids hit his back as he moved.The Balrog Slayer smiled at his brother. "Thank you." he said solemnly.The young elf did not smile. In fact, his eyes were distant and dark. "...You should tell people that you have spikes in your hair now." he said, as if he had not heard Glorfinde's gratitude. "I... I've never had to worry about that before..."Glorfindel's happy mood vanished as a neutral tone entered his little brother's voice. It was the one that appeared when he was trying to hide his emotions. Anger, sadness, worry, fear, all emotions could be subdued and hidden behind a shield of neutrality."What is the matter?" the Vanyar asked.Legolas stiffened and turned his head away from the Balrog Slayer's intense stare. He instead looked at the targets his brother had shot, studying each bullseye as if they were fascinating."Why would you think that something—""Do not avoid the question." Glorfindel said sternly.He knew he had to press the issue. Esgal was the type to let his thoughts fester, unwilling to let other people know what was bothering him because he did not wish to burden them. Legolas bit his lip, trying to decide whether he should tell his brother about the heavy weight upon him that had been haunting him for the past year."Gwador..." he said softly at last, looking at the ground. "Last year in Mirkwood, when I rescued Estel, I was too afraid to fight alongside them in battle. I have not fought alongside others in a skirmish like that before, and I was afraid that I would get them hurt.""How?" the Vanyar asked.The assassin shifted his weight, fingering one of his daggers. "In battle, my instincts are to dodge incoming blows. What if, by doing that, the blow meant for me swings past, and strikes one of my allies instead? Or what if, instead of striking out against an enemy, I instead kill my friends? Fighting is so instinctive, and I am so used to fighting alone, with only enemies around me. What if I accidentally cause harm to a friend because of this?"The fear in his voice and eyes were very real, and the Balrog Slayer's heart went out to his brother. He had been alone for so long, even with him, Radagast, and Bilbo. The only battle he had fought in alongside allies was the Battle of the Five Armies. Glorfindel knew only bits and pieces from what the assassin had told him, but knew enough to recall that Esgal had fought side-by-side with Thorin and his nephews."You were all right in the Battle." he said.Legolas sighed. "When I was with Fili, Kili, and Thorin, I was forced to stay in one spot, literally back-to-back with them. I knew they were there, and I knew that I had to block and dodge because they were right behind me the entire time. My instincts do not normally matter in large-scale war anyway, because everyone is far enough away from each other that I can dodge with no problems. But in smaller battles, the area in which myself and my allies will be moving about in is greatly decreased. Also, we will either be acting as separate mobile fighters or untied units while slaying our enemies. I'm not used to that. I'm used to fighting with just me. It did not matter if a spear went past me. It would only hit an enemy. I did not need to look while stabbing behind me. There were only orcs in the battles. I don't feel comfortable about fighting with allies. I'm just so used to be alone..."Glorfindel thought about this a long time, before his expression brightened as an idea came to him. "That is simple enough to fix. Come with me, Esgal."He walked off with a determined air, Legolas drifting behind him."What are we doing, gwador?" he questioned."We're gathering some elves to help teach you how to fight with allies." the Balrog Slayer said as if it were the most obvious thing in the world.LOTRLOTRLOTRTwenty minutes later, seventeen elves plus Aragorn were gathered in a wide-open space in the training grounds. Galadriel, Celeborn, Erestor, and Elrond stood near the side of the clearing. Legolas, Glorfindel, Aragorn, Thranduil, Elladan, Elrohir, Arwen, Bereneth, Fael, Rainor, Uilos, Haldir, Rumil, Thimben, Heled, and Orophin were gathered near the center. The Balrog Slayer stood beside a pile of training swords, which were wooden rods that had the same balance, weight, and length as real swords."Thank you all for agreeing to participate in this lesson," the Vanyar began. "Our purpose here today is to help Esgal learn how to fight alongside allies, something he has never done before. This will benefit us as well, in case we must fight alongside him in the future."The warriors all nodded. Some were there to support and help Esgal, others just wanted to see the assassin in action, and still others— meaning Bereneth— was hoping they would get the chance to get back at the young elf.Legolas was surprised that Thranduil was participating in the lesson, instead of watching like the other higher-classed elves. When Glorfindel questioned the Elvenking about this, he shrugged and said, "I haven't fought in a while. I want to make sure my skills are still sharp."Accepting this, the Vanyar walked around, passing out the training swords. He then brought out an altered pair, which Legolas quickly realized were fashioned after his daggers. Glorfindel handed the assassin the wooden "weapons", and the pale blonde-haired elf tested their weight and balance. They were the same as his real daggers."Please put all real weapons at the edge of the arena," Glorfindel ordered.The warriors unstrapped scabbards and laid down knives. Then all turned to stare as Legolas removed his weapons from his person. His twin daggers, thirty throwing knives, twenty shuriken, a long chain with a spiked head on the end, what looked like some type of claws, throwing stars and needles, and a garote were revealed. Then the elf began finding and taking out his many knives. Two in each sleeve, one at his lower back, one in each boot, three hidden on his legs, even a tiny one he had hidden beneath his tongue. Each weapon was set down with a clink, adding to the growing pile."Where does he keep them all?" the assassin heard an awed Rumil whisper to Opophin, who shushed him.The violet-eyed elf pretended he did not hear the question, reaching up to undo his braids."That won't be necessary," Glorfindel said. "You can keep them in. All of you, don't touch Esgal's hair." He paused, then added. "Or mine for that matter.""Braid-spikes." Aragorn explained before anyone could ask.The moment the words left the human's mouth, Legolas saw thoughtful expressions appear on Elrond, Celeborn, and Erestor's faces. The three male elves began speaking softly to each other, and beside them Galadriel smiled knowingly.With that out of the way, the Balrog Slayer swung his sword experimentally, looking around at the gathered warriors. "All right. Elladan, Elrohir, Estel, Arwen, Uilos, Fael, Rumil, Orophin, Rainor, and Bereneth will be the "enemies". Thranduil, Haldir and I will be your "allies"." The Marchwarden looked surprised at being chosen but nodded readily enough. "Elrond, Erestor, Galadriel, and Celeborn are just observing, apparently.""Can we be the blue team?" Elladan asked hopefully.The Vanyar gave him an exasperated look before he rolled his eyes. "I knew you were going to ask that. Yes, you can be blue. And we'll be the red team.""Why did you choose me to fight with Esgal?" Haldir interrupted, questioning the golden-haired warrior curiously."Because you two are almost complete strangers," Glorfindel explained. "You just met." A quick grin flashed across the Balrog Slayer's face. "Besides, I thought you would want to be on the red team."The Marchwarden glanced at his red cloak before shrugging in acceptance. Uilos spoke up, hesitantly voicing his thoughts."That is ten people against four. Isn't that unfair?"Aragorn's undignified snort made all look at him. The human turned pink under the scrutiny but spoke anyway. "...You've never seen Esgal fight a large group of enemies, have you?""No. Only you and Glorfindel have." Elladan answered for them all.The man did not say anything. They would see for themselves in a moment."When you are "killed" step back and stay out of the fight for three seconds before returning. Do not use full strength with your strikes," Glorfindel continued giving directions. "I don't want to deal with any bruises or broken bones. Esgal, no pressure points.""What about hand-to-hand?" the assassin asked.The Balrog Slayer considered. "...All right. But only use the moves you would in spars. No stunning."Both the golden-haired and pale blonde-haired elves were aware that Legolas could do much more than stun enemies with his bare hands, but the Vanyar knew that his little brother was perfectly capable of choosing what moves he would and would not use in a friendly fight. Then again, he was also capable of killing them in hundreds of ways with his wooden training knives... Still, he knew restraint.Elrond began the countdown to begin the fight. "Three... two... one... Begin!"Instantly, Legolas shifted into a less-deadly version of his assassin-self. Fight. Take out enemies. Survive. These became his foremost thoughts, and awareness of his allies' battles fled. He did not know where they were, only the "enemies" coming at him, and the other "enemies" around him.He dodged Rumil's "sword", his own "dagger" flicking up to prod the other elf's chest gently— They are not enemies. This is a spar. — and dragged his other "knife" across Elladan's chest. He turned, dodging Uilos's swing, kicking him away hard enough to make him fall, but not enough to injure or hurt him. He ducked, lunged, and tapped Arwen on the chest, spun, knocked Aragorn's "sword" out of the way, and delivered a noticeable poke to the man's rib cage.He moved with his regular speed, many of those around him stunned by his finesse and control. He did not parry or block, and he did not strike with what could even be considered "wounding" blows. Each hit was a "kill", and so the assassin move swiftly from opponent to opponent, each one forced to "die" and return quickly.The way to defeat elves was to use superior speed and to immediately aim for the kill. Assassins like him were perfect for such a task, and why would he not be? Defeating scores of his fast, agile kin had been a large part of his training. Important elves had guards to protect them after all.Legolas evaded a forward stab, grabbed Orophin's sword by the hilt as it passed, and— Carefully. Gently.—twisted the blade out of the warrior's hand. He flipped the weapon and mimed a stab, one that would normally impale the warrior but was made into a swift jab. He then dropped the sword, allowing the Lorien elf to retrieve it. He sidestepped Elrohir's slash, and gave the younger twin a swipe across his stomach in return.Trying a new tactic, Elladan, Arwen, and Aragorn tried to gang up on him. The assassin shifted out of the way of Arwen's stab, making her jab the Ranger solidly in the hip— Arwen apologized profusely as the man yelped— and the violet-eyed elf's "blades" blurred upward, crossing across the older twin's throat.Elladan looked into the assassin's blank-yet-aware eyes and could not help but shiver. The violet orbs were calculating and cold, yet at the same time held a small twinkle of light that told him that Esgal was perfectly in control of himself, and would not hurt him. It was then that the older twin realized how glad he was that Esgal was on their side, and how very, very relieved he was that this was only a mock-battle. The fight went on.Legolas was unaware of his allies' battles, though the knowledge that he had people on his side lingered in the back of his mind. He did not attack them but was not fully acknowledging them either, as if he was caught in a mantra he could not escape.Eliminate threats. Survive. Eliminate threats. Survive.That was the assassin's mentality, the rule that had been ingrained into his being since the day he arrived in Dol Guldur. Assassins worked alone. Assassins fought alone. Assassins eliminated their target and took out threats. They did not have allies. They did not have others to care about. They could rely on no one. They were alone.A hostile, fast-moving presence approached and he turned, to see Bereneth bearing down on him with her sword swinging down. Instinctively, the assassin dodged, and behind him Haldir gave a startled yelp as the "sword" hit him in the back, between his shoulder blades. The Marchwarden was stunned by the strength and power behind the blow, staggering forward."Halt!" Glorfindel called sharply, and everyone froze. The Balrog Slayer strode over to Haldir, placing a hand on the wincing warrior's arm. "Are you all right?"The Marchwarden nodded and straightened."It just surprised me." He assured the Vanyar, even as a dull pain beat through his back."That was exactly what I was worried about," Legolas interceded, tone bitter."I can see why you are so concerned about this more clearly now," Elrohir added darkly, frowning. "Be glad that was not a real sword, Haldir.""Even so, that blow was hard enough to leave a bruise," Elrond cut in, looking disapprovingly at Bereneth."Yes." Glorfindel stated, and turned to glare at the Princess. "This is a learning exercise, Bereneth. I expected you to use some restraint.""I was just trying to hit him," she gestured at Legolas. "I thought that was the point."With forced calm and serenity, the Balrog Slayer said. "No, it is not. If you cannot understand that, I suggest you leave before you seriously injure a comrade." His unspoken words were obvious to Legolas, and the assassin had a feeling that Bereneth saw them as well: You attempt at petty revenge has not gone unnoticed. Leave now or I'll call you out, in front of all these people. Don't think that I will not.The Princess saw the silent threat in the inwardly enraged Vanyar, and with a huff she turned on her heel, stalking out of the arena. There was a heartbeat of silence before the Balrog Slayer spoke once more."What happened, Esgal?" When the assassin gave him a blank look, his heart-brother elaborated. "What were you thinking when you thought. What were you focusing on, and what were you unaware of?"The violet-eyed elf was silent for a moment, trying to think of a way to explain. "...When the battle began, I lost track of my allies," he began slowly. "All I was aware of were my enemies, and those trying to attack me. I vaguely remembered that I had people at my side, but it was like I could not focus enough to tell where they were. My awareness was wide, yet at the same time, it was narrow. I knew where everyone was, but I was unable to truly... sense where my allies were, or if they needed assistance. All my thoughts were bent on removing the "threats" around me."No one spoke as everyone processed this.Then Elrohir broke the contemplative silence. "You say that you were aware of all enemies. What do you mean by that?""It is like a countdown," Legolas struggled to turn his instincts into words. "it is more obvious when my enemies die. When a fight begins, I sense how many enemies there are, and count down each time I kill one, to make sure I get them all. Once I reach zero, and no enemies are left, I... The only word I can think of is shift... Yes. I shift out of my fighting mentality instantly. It is an assassin technique, and the reason why I can go from peaceful to fighting, then return to calm and relaxed in a heartbeat."Those who had encountered the assassin before or knew him well all thought of the times they had seen Esgal go from laughing and mellow to emotionless and deadly in a millisecond."Esgal." Elrond said suddenly, bringing all attention to him. "I think you are more aware of your allies than you think. You did not attack them, so you were consciously acknowledging that they are not a threat. Which means, deep in your mind, you are at least partially aware of where they were, so you would not harm them. You can sense people through their energy, correct?" At Legolas's nod, he continued. "How well?"The assassin thought about it. "From a distance I can tell the race of a person, and how many they are. If I am closer or know them well, I can identify people based on their presence.""What are you sensing, exactly?" Fael asked, looking between the violet-eyed elf and Elrohir. "You keep mentioning "energy" and "presences"."The younger Rivendell twin shrugged but Legolas had an answer."There is a special energy that runs through all things in this world. It is known by many names: life-energy, chi, chakra, aura, and spiritual-energy are just a few of them. Basically, it is the energy of life. In some, this energy merely exists within them, its only purpose being to exist within them. In others— like elves and Wizards— this energy can be used to perform "magic". By magic, I mean anything from spells to words of healing. For example, when Lord Elrond heals, he takes some energy out of his own body and transfers it to the injured person, increasing their waning energy and healing them. A transfer of energy is also why..."He hesitated then continued softly. "...why the Ring is so powerful, and also why Sauron needs it in order to regain power. When he created it, he used much of his own energy. Too much, in fact. That is why he cannot return or survive without the Ring. The energy flowing through people creates their presence and each presence is unique, which allows me to identify them with my sixth sense." Out of words, he stopped, waiting to see what the older elves were thinking."Is that how I can sense orcs?" Elrohir questioned instead. "I sense their Dark energy?""Yes." the assassin said simply.Elrond and Erestor were quiet, seeming to communicate silently as they looked at each other. Moving eyebrows, small gestures, and minute nods were all that passed between the Lord and scholar, but Legolas could tell it was much more. Finally, the Peredhel Lord turned to the violet-eyed elf."From what you have said, I am guessing that your sensing abilities are very sharp, and you are able to identify others easily through their aura." he began. "Try doing this; Focus on each person's presence constantly in the battle, just enough to distinguish your "allies" from your "enemies". Theoretically, this will help you keep track of your friends in the melee, keep your focus from becoming to narrowed, and allow you to adapt your fighting style whenever you need to in order to protect them. This will also allow you to fight normally whenever they are not close by, without having to worry about striking or ignoring them. Do you understand?""I believe so." the assassin murmured. The Peredhel wanted him to use his sixth sense in fights? He supposed that it could work. Elrond was right, it would most likely keep him from sinking completely into his assassin-mindset and thinking he was absolutely alone... "I will try."Everyone was staring at him expectantly. The assassin shifted uncomfortably under their gazes."Could you look at something other than me, please?" he asked.He did not mean to sound rude, but having all of those eyes on him was unnerving. Deliberately, Aragorn began speaking softly to Arwen and the twins, and the other warriors all gathered into small group, murmuring to each other. The buzz of their voices was surprisingly calming rather than distracting. Elrond seemed to notice Legolas's more relaxed state."Focus your awareness, Esgal." the Elf Lord said quietly. "Feel each one of us around you."Legolas did as he asked, breathing in and out slowly as he drew upon his sixth sense. He could sense each person around him, their presences bright and bold to his senses. The elven Lords and Ladies blazed, their family glowing only slightly dimmer. If the presences had colors, all of the elves would have hints of gold in their auras.Galadriel and Celeborn would be a blazing gold and white, as would Glorfindel, though his would have a hint of aquatic bluish-green. Elrond, Elrohir, and Elladan would also be gold, but with small sparks of sapphire blue. Erestor's aura would be a lighter gold, with a lighter, gentler azure. The Lothlorien warriors would have auras of the same brilliant gold and white as their Lord and Lady, though less potent and bright. The Rivendell warriors would also have less gold, but more sky blue. Compared to their Lords and the kin of their leaders, their auras would be softer, less powerful.The Royal Family of Mirkwood would be a shimmering gold, with earthy browns, shining silvers, and emerald greens mixed in. That was with the exception of Bereneth, who would have a streak of red to represent her anger. The Mirkwood warriors would also have green and brown mixed in, but with much less gold.Aragorn's aura would have no gold, but would be glowing silver and shining blue with tiny hints of brown, bright among humans yet dull among the elves. He was a Dunedan, long-lived and Kingly, but was also mortal. Still, he was strong of will and great in spirit, so his aura would blaze powerfully for one of his race.As Legolas contemplated this, turning the presences into colors in his mind, he slowly began to distinguish between each person's presence. As if he were seeing their faces, he could recognize them, picking out each individual. The assassin exhaled and opened his eyes, the violet orbs glowing."I am ready to try again."The warriors gathered once more in the clearing, ready to fight. Again, Elrond counted down, and the moment he shouted to start, the fighters were moving. Everyone's presences hummed at the back of Legolas's mind like a distant thought, the vague awareness of his allies just strong enough for him to tell where they were. It would be even easier to fight where his enemies were all orcs or other Dark creatures. Even evil Men had presences of Shadow and Darkness, their souls corrupted from their allegiance to the enemies of the Free People.As the assassin dodged a strike from Thimben he was aware of Thranduil blocking a blow from Fael. As the young elf tapped Elrohir on the kidney, he knew that nearby Glorfindel and Thranduil were currently fighting back-to-back. He darted towards the two, blades jabbing and sweeping as he ran, hitting each one he passed quickly before they could react. He was so fast.There was a lull in the battle as the assassin "killed" many of the blue team, each of them forced to stay out for three seconds before returning. They did all at once, rushing the red team. Legolas sidestepped Arwen's downward slash, pushing her blade aside to unbalance her and sweeping her legs out from under her. She hit the dirt and he tapped her between her shoulder blades, signifying a "kill".A twist brought him out of Heled's path, his sweeping "blades" catching the Mirkwood warrior across the chest and shoulder. If the fight had been real and the blow at full strength, the elf would have been sliced open. Instead he just felt controlled pressure on his torso, another "death" on his part. He sensed Elladan sneaking up behind Haldir while Elrohir and Thimben distracted him.A throwing knife— handle first— would have solved the problem but such an option was unavailable currently. Thinking fast, the elf picked up a loose piece of bark, throwing it at the older twin. Elladan yelped as the projectile smacked him in the back of the head, only hard enough to be noticed.Haldir turned and jabbed at the older twin. That done, his eyes met the assassin's, and the violet-eyed elf mouthed, "Watch your back." The Marchwarden nodded in acknowledgment, then returned to his battle with the other two warriors, taking care of them quickly.His ally out of danger, Legolas faced his next group of enemies. Moving and swaying, he was like water as he flowed around them, all of them unable to touch him as if he were smoke drifting through their fingers. With tiny shifts, little sways, lightning-fast strikes, and controlled blows, he was in his element.He rapped both Heled and Rainor on the chests, spun and slashed, and tilted his head to avoid Fael's stab. The Prince came at him and Legolas shifted, grabbing him as he went by and throwing him— Gently— down on the ground. A touch of his "blade" to the silver-haired elf's throat told the Prince he was done for.Legolas's ever-present awareness flickered, telling him of another enemy coming up behind him. The elf faced Aragorn, the man bearing down on him with his "sword" raised. At the back of the assassin's mind, a presence flared in warning.Thranduil was behind him.Legolas did not dodge, but blocked. Aragorn flinched slightly as their training weapons connected, startled that the assassin had not moved. He recovered instantly and kept fighting, slashing at the elf. A quick flick followed by a definitive prod to the chest made the man retreat.Glorfindel saw the whole thing and grinned, calling a halt to the mock-fight. The two sides broke apart, many panting heavily from exertion."How many times did you get killed?" Rumil asked his brother wearily.Orophin thought about it. "I think at least ten. You?"The Lorien warrior grimaced. "Thirteen.""If that had been a real battle, we all would have been dead in a couple minutes," Thimben said, slightly awed."From what I saw, that is the truth. I doubt there would be anyone left for the rest of the "red team". You are very skilled, Esgal." Thranduil said approvingly, smiling at the young elf.Legolas hesitantly smiled back, heart lifting at the Elvenking's words. For some reason, he felt confusingly happy after receiving the complement.Aragorn scoffed. "What you saw was nothing compared to what he can do in a real battle, with all of his weapons. He was holding back greatly in this fight, being careful not to harm anyone. He is quite capable of slaying us all with those training daggers.""Esgal could kill us with a piece of string and a feather. This is nothing." Glorfindel said dismissively— and rather cheerfully.The blonde-haired elf stared at the two, confused. Why were they telling the others this? He spotted something in their stance, expressions, and eyes, and his own eyebrows rose incredulously. Were Glorfindel and Aragorn bragging about his skills? The elf did not know it, but the human and Vanyar felt obliged to do some boasting on his behalf. Glorfindel had the right to do so because he was Esgal's older brother, and the Ranger knew that the elf did not give himself enough credit. He was almost too humble. And also did not seem to have a clue that many of his skills were shocking, rare, and special.Wanting to hide from the approving, shocked, and calm stares he was receiving, Legolas quickly put his hood up, the shadow of the cowl hiding his face. Almost instantly Elladan gave a squawk. Pointing wildly at the assassin."You're Brian!"Legolas stared blankly at him before memory struck. He had forgotten what had happened when he had given baby Aragorn to Glorfindel. The unofficial meeting with the twins had slipped from his mind."Yes, I was." he admitted, unsure of how the twin would react."You never told us!" Elladan exclaimed. Then he glared at the Balrog Slayer. "And you didn't either!""What are you talking about?" Aragorn asked.Glorfindel strode over to Legolas, placing a hand on his shoulder. "Esgal is the one that brought you to Rivendell, Estel. It was before he wished to reveal himself, so he used his "Ranger" alias, "Brian", in order to give you to use without delay or questions." He rose an eyebrow at the twins. "I'm surprised that you only realized this now."The twins turned pink. "Esgal never had his hood up around us before." Elrohir argued. "Brian was wearing a hood and face mask, and we thought he was a man. How were we supposed to make the connection?""That is one of the reasons I wear the hood." the assassin came to the brothers' defense. "So that people do not recognize me and think I am a man.""You were the one that brought me here?" Aragorn asked softly. The man slowly approached the elf, halting in front of him and staring at him. For a moment, the Ranger could not think of what to say. What did one say to the savior that had rescued him from orcs when he was a babe and brought him to safety and a new family? Finally, the man decided simplicity would have to suffice. "Thank you."Thank you for saving me. Thank you for giving me to Elrond, to the family that I love so much. Thank you for saving me again many years later. Thank you for treating me like an adult even though you first encountered me when I was a child. Thank you.Looking into silver eyes, seeing all of the emotion and gratitude within, Legolas understood. He smiled, gripped Aragorn's offered hand, and said. "You're welcome."No more words needed to be said.LOTRLOTRLOTRLegolas was in a good mood as he sat in a tree in Elrond's garden. He leaned against the trunk, heart light and mind at ease, content to watch as the leaves rustled and swayed overhead. The leaves were bright and green, basking beneath the sun's light with a sense of calm and peacefulness that did not exist in the Shadowed trees of Mirkwood. The tree whispered softly in his ears, telling stories of many elves that had sought serenity in its limbs. Even the wise Elrond had come here to sit more than once. The violet-eyed elf did not take his eyes away from the green leaves and blue sky, humming in response to the tree, almost lulled into sleep by the calm around him.The entrance of a sharp, Shadowed presence snapped him out of his near-slumber, and the elf tensed before sighing in irritation and worry, lowering his awareness of auras as far as he dared. His sensitivity to the Shadowed Elves in Rivendell had been making him twitchy and on-guard in the Hidden Valley for the duration of his stay, and it was becoming a little more than annoying.After Amulug's exile, his followers had seemed to become less violent and angry. However, Legolas did not believe that their rage had magically vanished because their leader was gone. He could feel the parasitic, empty Darkness in their souls festering. It was still there. They had not healed. They were just pretending to be completely themselves again... or the Darkness was making them.Much thought about Amulug and the Shadowed Elves had made Legolas wonder how much of the incident with Aragorn was the exiled warrior's fault. Was it Amulug own rage that had made the warrior attack the man, or had the Darkness influenced him into becoming violent? The assassin did not know, and was unsure about what he could do with his thoughts.He had told Elrond and Thranduil— with Glorfindel present— about his ability to sense the Shadows in the elves last year in Mirkwood. The two Lords had thought about and discussed this a long time, trying to figure out what to do, when the Elvenking had asked if any of his warriors were Shadowed. Legolas had spent only a moment sensing the world around him before he answered with a surprising and alarming "No."That begged the question: Why not? Why weren't any of the Mirkwood elves tainted by the Shadow? They had lost so much, and were exposed to the Darkness much more. How could they remain untainted, while elves from the Light realms of Rivendell and Lothlorien were affected? Could the inhabitants of Mirkwood somehow be resistant?None of them knew, and Legolas had left the meeting with word that there was nothing he could do for now. That was a terrible, but honest truth. What could he, a mere Wood Elf, do if the Lady of the Light and Lord Elrond could not banish the Shadows from their elves?So the assassin only observed and remained vigilant, telling Glorfindel of any changes in the Darkness inside the elves. He told the Balrog Slayer which elves were Shadowed, and which ones were beginning to become tainted. The two elves noticed a pattern among the ones starting to turn: all had just lost someone close to them, and were grieving.It was a chilling discovery. Luckily, Glorfindel's discreet and careful concern and prodding seemed to pull the just-turning elves out of their fall, and most's auras returned to normal, casting away the Darkness before it could take hold. There was no helping the Shadowed Elves, however.Legolas shifted in his tree, no longer comfortable, and sighed heavily. How was it that he, a mere assassin, ended up being the only one who could sense and watch the Shadowed Elves? It was relieving to be able to help and inform in little ways, but why was he the only one? Surely Galadriel, Elrond, Celebon, or any sensors among the elves would be able to do the same thing? Apparently not.The assassin hated being so "special". It gave people even more reasons to pay attention and be in awe of him. He did not want attention and he did not want awe. He just wanted to laugh with Glorfindel, be with friends, kill orcs, enjoy nature, and generally be free, without a great burden lying on his shoulders.That thought brought forth the memory of Galadriel's words and warnings. His thoughts now buzzing with a thousand new worries, Legolas gave up with trying to relax. He leapt down to the ground, landing noiselessly. Before he could walk away however, some laughing Valar decided to throw another source of concern at him, just to see how he would react."You!"The violet-eyed elf closed his eyes, breathing out slowly even as his muscles tensed, ready for a fight. "My name is Esgal." he said calmly, turning to the shouter.Bereneth glowered at him, one hand on her hip while the other still grasped the training sword from the mock-battle earlier. "What are you doing here?" she demanded."I was speaking to the tree." Legolas said honestly. She was half Wood Elf, surely she would understand.The Princess scoffed. "Of course you were. Because that's what you do to pass the time when you're not humiliating warriors."The assassin blinked in confusion. "Excuse me?""Don't act innocent," Bereneth snarled, gripping the training sword tightly. "You think you're so special. You can kill a hundred orcs by yourself! You can hide in plain sight! You can speak to shadowed trees! You save people!" Sarcasm dripped from her voice with every word, and Legolas was suddenly reminded of a venomous snake. And a warg. "You think that you know everything, but you're just a naive little fool... and a freak." She spat the word like it was poison, and despite himself the young elf flinched.Noticing this, Bereneth sneered at him. "You don't understand anything about social classes, do you? My father, Elrond, the twins, my brother, Galadriel, Celeborn, even Estel. We are all royalty, Elf Lord, and Ladies, the highest class in our realms. We are the leaders, the powerful ones, the Lords... so why would we befriend or care about a homeless freak like you?"Legolas opened his mouth to respond but the Princess cut him off, aloof and cold."Why else would nobles care about scum? We pity you. Glorfindel truly cares, even I admit that, but the rest of us? Lord Elrond? My father? The Lady of the Light? Please! They don't care about you. They just want to make sure you don't help the enemy." She laughed, cruel and cold. "They may pretend to be nice for formalities' sake, but in reality they're only pitying, using, and trying to control you. You're just a weapon to them, and always will be. I have no idea how you ever thought otherwise!"The assassin was overwhelmed by the accusations and "truths" she threw at him, uncertainty taking hold. He had seen nobles in human settlements, and witnessed how they treated those lower than them. Peasants were like trash to some of the human Lords. Why would elven nobles be any different?It's not true, Legolas told himself. They are my allies and friends. They aren't like those humans. But then again, Thranduil and Elrond had asked him not to tell anyone about the Shadowed elves, and told him to inform them if anything changed with the tainted ones. But that was a normal thing to ask, right? It was not like they were using him. But Galadriel had just told him to not let out his glow, and Elrohir and Elladan had wanted to use his skills for their own purposes when they first found out about them.It was only because they wanted to spread mischief, a benign reason. They didn't want to use me for anything serious.The seeds of doubt had been sewn into his mind, and Bereneth smirked as she saw worry, doubt, and fear flash across the assassin's face. She spotted two elves entering the garden and her cold grin widened as she recognized them. Without warning she struck, swinging her training sword at Legolas with all of the strength she could muster.The assassin reacted, jerking back, but his distraction and inner-conflict cost him. The wood slammed into his left wrist, and the young elf could not stop the gasp of pain that escaped him as a sharp crack echoed through the garden. He leapt backwards, cradling his arm to his chest, and staring at Bereneth with large, hurt eyes. The Princess felt a tiny flicker of remorse before she shoved it away. The freak needed to be put in his place."Run along and tell one of the Lords or my father about this little incident," she bluffed, jeering. "See if they care."Legolas hesitated, and his eyes fell on the two elves that were watching the encounter. Both had not moved or protested against the Princess's actions, and both had aloof, triumphant expressions on their faces. They were not shocked or horrified. They did not care that he had been injured.Pain shot through the assassin's chest, so sharp he almost believed it was physical. He did not show how hurt he was, however, his face slipping into a blank mask. He turned on his heel and walked quickly towards the door, thoughts in turmoil. Not watching where he was going, he slammed into someone, both of them falling to the ground. He looked up and his violet eyes met green. Legolas froze.Fael, not noticing the assassin's alarm, mock-growled. "Watch where you're going."Normally, Legolas would have heard the teasing in his tone. But reeling from Bereneth's words, the assassin only heard harsh anger in the Prince's voice. The violet-eyed was off him so fast that the green-eyed elf was stunned.The blonde-haired Wood elf did not look at the silver-haired Royal, bowing stiffly and speaking in a voice that was flat and cold. "I apologize, Prince."Before Fael could react to the words, Legolas was gone. He left, too distracted to notice that the two elves that had witnessed Bereneth's attack were Shadowed Elves. Elves that the Princess had recognized from her father's list of their tainted kin.In the hall, the young elf halted, tears of pain pricking at his eyes and his aching wrist clutched to his chest. Bereneth's mocking words and many other things and doubts whirled around his mind, until a single, pained thought formed.Could I really have been so stupid? Hurt, confused, and feeling more alone than ever, Legolas made his way to the healing ward, intent on finding bindings for his wrist. He would wrap his injury, then leave. There was no need to tell anyone that he was hurt, not even Glorfindel. The assassin had been taking care of his own injuries for years, and would continue to do so. There was nothing wrong with that.Because, in the end, the only person he could truly rely on was himself.LOTRLOTRLOTRBack in the garden, Fael rounded on his sister. "What did you do?"She stared at him coldly, something dark in her eyes. "I was just teaching him about social classes and how they should respect their betters."As the two other elves left, the Prince stared mutely at the golden-haired elleth, momentarily struck speechless. "You... You..."for a moment, Bereneth was sure that her brother was going to throttle her. Then he deflated, expression crumbling like shattered glass. He fell to his knees, head in his hands, and the elleth was stunned to realize he was crying."What happened to you?" Fael choked, tears streaming down his cheeks. "What happened to the big sister I looked up to? How did you become so cruel?""I'm not being cruel. I'm merely putting him in his place." the Princess said simply."His place?" Fael asked, and his emerald-colored eyes darkened. "You never cared about social class before.""That was a long time ago," Bereneth said dismissively. "I have long since realized that it is only proper that lines be drawn between royals and their subjects.""Explain." the silver-haired elf said hollowly."It is because we are so approachable and friendly with those lower than us that Naneth died," the Princess said without preamble, making her brother flinch. She ignored him. "If the guards had been doing their jobs properly, then they would have seen the ambush before it came. Instead, Naneth probably told them to relax and enjoy the ride." Her tone was scathing and cold as she spoke of their deceased mother, an apathetic detachment in her voice.Fael went absolutely still, something dangerous appearing in his eyes. "Are you blaming Naneth for her death?" he asked in a quiet hiss."Yes." Bereneth said flatly. "Her and the warriors. If they had not been so lenient and comfortable, and if she had not encouraged it, they would not have died. Lords are meant to rule. Warriors are meant to obey and serve. They are not meant to be friends. Esgal is no more than a loner freak that is upsetting the balance of power even further. I was just informing him of the proper workings of society, something a wild savage like him can't seem to understand."For the life of him, Fael could not understand his sister's logic. He had no intention of trying either. The tears had dried on his face, and his green eyes were colder than ice. "I see." he said in an emotionless voice. "I was wrong, Bereneth. You aren't cruel. You're an apathetic, sadistic, uncaring orc!"The golden-haired elleth's temper flared but before she could speak, Fael was gone. She scoffed at him. He was probably going after that upstart assassin. Like he would find him. He had probably fled Rivendell by now.Bereneth hated Esgal.She hated him because he ignored the right order of things, dining with Lords when he was no more than a peasant. She hated him because he could kill scores of orcs by himself and hunt them whenever he wished, while she could not and only encountered the monsters on patrols. She hated him because he had pale blonde hair, just like Legolas's, and that her family accepted him because of that— in her opinion, anyway. She hated him because that reminded her of her brother, and all that she had lost.His presence awoke something inside her, and she rebelled and raged against it, seething, snarling, and angry. She could feel her soul trying to reach out to the assassin but she held it back, hating the Valar for making her suffer like this. And if she had to suffer, then she would make Esgal suffer as well.How dare he remind her of her brother, and upset her world.The cold, arrogant Princess stalked out of the garden, not hearing the tree's mourning voice as it watched her go.LOTRLOTRLOTRThranduil did not know why he was heading for the healing ward in Imladris. A few minutes ago, he had been conversing with Elrond when a pain— so sharp and agonizing he thought he had been stabbed— shot through his heart. He felt a distant ache in his heart, echoes of pain rippling through him. The Sindar had not hesitated and had rushed out of the room, confusion roiling within him. His senses were tingling, his nerves buzzing, and all he could do was follow his instincts towards his destination. Nothing special had occurred, nothing dramatic had happened, but deep in his heart the Elvenking knew something had changed. He knew something was very, very wrong.The Sindar halted in front of the closed doors, staring at the wood-work in front of him. His heart pulled at him, begging him to go inside. It was an odd and slightly terrifying feeling, one he had not felt in years. It was an extension of his bonds with others, a connection between those he cared for and himself. It was like a low level of empathy or maybe even telepathy.The last time he had been like this, he had found Megilag injured after fighting orcs, not long after his wife had died. The old instinct carried a single message, an urge to run and find the source of his dismay: Help him. Hurry. But who was injured this time? Who was hurting so?Thranduil dithered a moment longer outside the door, pushing it open and fearing what he would find inside. His eyes scanned the room, landing on its single occupant. His bewilderment and alarm only became more pronounced. For standing at the end of the hall, back to him, was none other than Esgal. The Sindar pushed his questions as to why the young elf's pain would be known to him aside."Esgal?" he called.The assassin flinched so violently one would think that the Elvenking had shouted at him. He spun, falling into a defensive stance, and only grew more tense when he spotted Thranduil. The assassin's gaze dropped and he bowed stiffly."My Lord." he said in a formal, neutral tone.For some reason, the words made Thranduil's heart clench painfully. Pushing his emotional turmoil away, the Elvenking strode forward, halting in front of Esgal. "Are you all right?" he asked, concern evident in his tone."I am fine." The words were spoken in a rush, quick and defensive.Thranduil felt a frown darken his face, but forced it to vanish when the expression only added to the assassin's nervousness. "I do not think you are. I—" Felt your pain. "—can see that something is bothering you." He glanced down, brow furrowing. "You're holding your left wrist."Indeed the young elf was, clutching his forearm with his right hand, the limb held close to his body. Esgal let go the moment the Sindar mentioned it."No I wasn't. I am fine." he lied."I don't believe you," Thranduil informed him quietly. "Let me see."He stepped forward and reached out. Instantly, the assassin shifted ever-so-slightly away from him. The Elvenking paused, stunned by how much the rejection stung. He looked at the violet-eyed elf, really looked at him, and was dismayed by what he saw. Esgal's violet eyes, normally so bright and confident, were dark and pained, a haunted and mistrustful gloom in their depths. There was also a heart-wrenching fear in his eyes as he looked at Thranduil, as if a Nazgûl stood before him instead of an elf.No, not a Nazgûl, for the Sindar was certain that the assassin did not fear the Ringwraiths. Then what could he have done, to make the young elf so wary of him? Thranduil could only think of two things that Esgal was terrified of: his friends dying, and rejection. The Elvenking did not call the violet-eyed elf out on this, knowing that doing so would only make him more nervous and withdrawn."You are injured, Esgal." the Sindar said patiently. "Let me help."Again, the elf moved back the smallest bit as he reached for him. Again, Thranduil's heart wailed at the suspicion in those violet eyes. He let his hand drop back to his side."I am fine." the assassin repeated stoically.Visible fear was vanishing, closed off behind a mask of indifference. But the wariness lingered in the elf's gaze, and tension remained in his posture. At the moment he was a cornered, wounded animal, and Thranduil knew that if he startled Esgal, the assassin would lash out or flee."Let me help you." he said again. "I know you may have been forced to take care of your own injuries before, but I am here now. Let me care for you." Blue eyes met violet and the Elvenking pleaded. "Trust me enough to take care of you."Esgal stood stock-still, wide eyes never leaving Thranduil's. "Why do you care?" he whispered, the words coming out like a cracking whip. "Why do you want to help me?" There was a harsh suspicion and accusation in his tone, his voice almost a snarl.The Sindar remained cautious and stared at him in confusion, trying to think of an answer to the odd, angry question. "I want to help because you need it. I want to because I can see your pain. I want to in order to show you that you don't need to rely only on yourself anymore. Because you are..." A person? An ally? A friend? All of those titles seemed too distant, and none seemed right. "...Because I care greatly about you. Do I really need a reason more than that?"The assassin looked unconvinced. "You are a King," Esgal said flatly. "I am just an assassin. Why would you and those of your status befriend me?" Violet eyes pierced Thranduil, filled with hurt, worry, fear, anger, mistrust, and most of all, pain. "Do you just want to use me? Am I just a weapon to you? Is that why you "care", so I won't fight for anyone else?"A dark suspicion wormed its way into Thranduil's mind but he ignored it. "Of course not." he said firmly. "How could you even think that?"Esgal shrugged, avoiding his gaze once more. His right hand reached over to touch his left wrist, and the Elvenking saw the small wince that resulted from the contact. The Sindar's concern increased. He really needed to have a look at whatever was hurting the assassin. But first, he needed the young elf to see that he truly was an ally and friend. He needed him to trust him."Do you want to know why I really care, Esgal?" he asked softly. "It's because... well, because you are you. Nothing more, nothing less. Surely you must understand that?"The violet-eyed elf's expression told the King that he dare not try to."You are not just a weapon, and not just a killer." Thranduil stated. "You are so much more than that. You are a good warrior, true, but you are an even better person. I care for you because you are Fael's friend. I care for you because you are able to laugh and shine even in the darkest places. You are a Light that has overcome much loss and Darkness, and for some reason, just seeing you gives me hope."The Elvenking looked away from the startled elf, embarrassed by what he was going to say but feeling like it needed to be said. "...I care for you and don't completely understand why, for there is a bond between us that urges me to just take you into my arms and keep you safe." He smiled, a sad, morose smile. "Perhaps it is because you remind me of my deceased son. He had pale blonde hair, loved the trees, and found wonder in much of the world, like you do..." A distant expression appeared on the Elvenking's face, sadness dimming his glow."I'm sorry." Esgal apologized."Don't be." Thranduil told him. "I do not mind that my sentimental, paternal heart has decided to be drawn to you. In fact I am more glad that you have come into our lives than you know. For some reason, you have brought about a change in my children. Fael is laughing and pranking again. Aglar is smiling more often and is less distant. Barhad has actually let his brother drag him outside more than once, under the pretense that he is studying the flora and fauna that you showed my eldest son. And Megilag has taken it upon himself to flirt with every ellith that approached you at the ball. He hasn't done that in years."A short laugh escaped Esgal before he quieted once more, looking away. "Not all are happy about me being here.""That may be true, but many are." Thranduil said. "I am guessing that it was Bereneth that did... whatever is making you hold your wrist."Esgal did not respond. The Elvenking sighed, suddenly reminded of the times when his children were elflings, and had dealt with bullies. That had been long ago, but Thranduil had not been disillusioned by their silence either. He reached out once more, hands stretching out in the air between them."Please, let me see your injuries."Esgal swallowed, took a deep breath, and carefully approached the Elvenking, still tense. He rolled up his left sleeve, wincing slightly, and it kept much of Thranduil's self-control not to gasp or curse in anger. A wide, purplish-black bruise, about a hand-width wide, was centered around the assassin's wrist. The area was swollen, almost twice its size, and the Sindar feared that the bone might be fractured. He gently held Esgal's forearm, inspecting the injury."Can you move your hand?" he asked."Mostly. It just hurts a little." the young elf said with gritted teeth.Thranduil was no healer, and had no idea whether the bone was broken or not. The good news was that no fractured bone had broken through the skin, but the bad news..."What were you struck with?"Esgal shifted, stilling as the movement caused a flash of pain to go through his arm. "It was one of the wooden training swords."The Elvenking breathed evenly, forcing himself not to explode. He had to keep calm. "I don't suppose this happened during the spar?"The assassin did not respond.Thranduil sighed, and looked up into violet eyes. "I am not a healer, but I have a feeling this is more than swelling and a bruise. You need to let Lord Elrond look at this."There it was. The tiny flash of fear and broken trust. The Elvenking knew from Glorfindel how hard it was for Esgal to trust people, and now Bereneth seemed to have set Thranduil and the other elves' efforts back. Trust was hard to get, and shattered trust was even harder to mend.Then Esgal set his jaw and nodded determinedly. The Sindar was momentarily stunned by the action, then a relieved smile crossed his face. Perhaps the assassin's trust was not as far gone as he feared. At least, the young elf seemed willing to try again.Thranduil walked out for a moment and stopped the first elf he found, ordering them to find Elrond and Glorfindel. The assassin could use his brother right now. Once the elleth had rushed off, he returned to the assassin, who was sitting on one of the beds.The Elvenking debated with himself, trying to decide if being blunt would only cause the injured elf to flee. After a moment's musing, he decided the risk was worth it. "Did my daughter strike you and say that we were only using you?"Esgal stiffened but did not run off like the Sindar had feared. The golden-haired elf was quickly realizing that the assassin was not the type to run away for long. If he did run, it was because he was facing rejection or betrayal from friends. But he would soon gather himself and return, strong and calm once more. Even so, the elf was young, and had the insecurities of all young members of any race. He still needed much care and guidance, and somehow Thranduil found himself providing it."...Yes. It was her." the assassin admitted at last.Thranduil exhaled— Calm. Remain calm.— and said. "You know that Bereneth is... aggressive towards you. Why would you believe her words?"The look the assassin gave him was answer enough. Because she is voicing my greatest fears. "Other than Glorfindel, I encountered no "noble" elves before last year." Esgal explained softly. "All I saw were human nobles... and most were not kind to those of lower classes, and rarely befriended them. I truly believed that elves were different— I did!— but I suppose the doubt lingered at the back of my mind. And when Bereneth was saying all of those things..." He closed his eyes, head down.Oh, Esgal, Thranduil thought. You are so confident, and yet you are not. You are so innocent, but also so haunted. You are wise beyond your years, but at the same time almost as confused and ignorant as a child. You have been a loner for so long, you know close to nothing about society, and I can see you do not want to. Society has standards, society hurts, and society contains. I see why you wish to remain distanced from it. I hope that the friendships and bonds you have forged never imprison you in a city or realm... It would destroy you."Listen to me, Esgal." the Elvenking said seriously. "As much as it pains me, I must tell you not to listen to Bereneth. Ignore her, avoid her, or disregard her words. She... she has been rather close-minded and cold for the past couple hundred years."The Elvenking sighed and, for the thousandth time, tried to identify the time his daughter had begun to change. Things had been going well all those years ago. As well as things could for a grieving family, anyway. Bereneth had just forgiven Hannel for not coming to Legolas's funeral... but then, suddenly, abruptly, and shockingly, she changed. She grew cold, harsh, arrogant, and aloof, and no one could figure out why.All Thranduil could deduce was that the realization that her mother was dead had finally caught up with her, and the Princess had somehow decided to blame social statuses for Luineth and Legolas's deaths. The Elvenking could not understand how his daughter had come to that conclusion, but at the same time he could understand a little bit. It was almost like how he hated outsiders for a while after he learned of his youngest son's demise. But at least he had grown past that, and emerged a better elf.Bereneth was clinging to her rage, and taking it out on the assassin that could kill many orcs while she could not. If she or any Mirkwood warrior could, the Queen and Lost Prince would not have died. She took it out on the Wood Elf that could speak with shadowed trees while she could not. Esgal could do so much more to preserve the forest than she.She was a Princess of Mirkwood, while Esgal was a homeless nobody. Why was it that he had the power to fight the Shadow so greatly... while she could not? As far as Thranduil could figure out, that anger and jealousy was what fueled his daughter's persistent antagonism. Speaking of which..."Esgal," the Elvenking asked, afraid of looking at the elf. "...Is Bereneth Shadowed?"Finally, the question that had been haunting him was out in the open. Finally, the answer he dreaded would be given, for either way the news was not good. If Bereneth was Shadowed, that meant that the elves of Mirkwood were not immune like all had assumed. But if she was not...Legolas did not answer the Sindar for a moment. His heart felt heavy at the news he had to give. Surely the Elvenking already knew the answer? If Bereneth was Shadowed, did he honestly think that the assassin would believe a word she said? If she was Shadowed, did Thranduil believe that the violet-eyed elf would let the elleth get that close to him? If she was Shadowed, did the Sindar think that the pale blonde-haired elf would not tell him? But Thranduil wanted confirmation, voiced words that only Legolas could give. And so the elf responded with the relieving yet terrifying truth."No. She is not." Esgal said.Relief and pain warred on the Elvenking's features. "...I see. So she has done all of this when her thoughts and heart are her own." Thranduil gave a bitter laugh. "How arrogant of we elves, to believe that we could not be taken by negative emotions. How foolish of us it was to think that we are above cruelty..." He rubbed a hand over his forehead, feeling more weighed-down than ever. "I will have to speak with her." And punish her. Again.He rose, intent on leaving, only to have a hand wrap around his wrist. He looked down to see Esgal still sitting there, head down, his thin right hand gripping the Elvenking."Don't confront her about this." he pleaded. "Please, do not side against your daughter again for my sake.""She attacked you, Esgal." Thranduil said. Do not snarl or snap, he told himself. I don't want to make him nervous again. "Just like Amulug attacked Estel.""Estel is the adoptive son of a Lord," the assassin argued, looking more and more alarmed. So much for keeping him calm. "I'm just an—""You are just as important as she is," Thranduil interrupted. "I cannot let this go unpun—""Don't exile her." the young elf whispered, but his voice stopped the Elvenking's as swiftly as a blow. Seeing the Sindar's blank expression, Esgal spoke rapidly. "Do not cast away a member of your family because of me. I'm fine with another punishment— any punishment. My word has to count for something, right?"Thranduil's mind was still struggling to process what was being said. Why did the assassin think he was going to exile his daughter? Because that was Amulug's punishment, the golden-haired elf realized. He thinks that Bereneth's would be the same. And it might have been if she weren't my daughter. But still... Oh, Esgal. She attacked you, and yet here you are, trying to convince me not to punish her harshly... "I won't exile her." he informed the violet-eyed elf, who relaxed visibly. "But she will be punished.""All right," Esgal agreed, though he still looked troubled.Elrond and Glorfindel rushed into the room at that moment, both Lords' eyes falling on the young elf."What happened?" Glorfindel demanded, striding forward and inspecting his brother's wrist gently.Thranduil noticed with a flash of jealousy that the assassin did not flinch away from the Vanyar. Glorfindel has gained his brother's trust, completely. I wonder how long that took?Elrond also approached the elf, halting as the young one tensed."It's all right," Thranduil and Glorfindel said together, then looked at each other. More like they eyed each other suspiciously.Esgal slowly offered his left arm to the healer, and Elrond gently studied and probed his wrist with knowing eyes and careful fingers. After a few moments of tense silence, the Elf Lord straightened, looking at the Balrog Slayer."Please get me a splint and some bindings. The limb is not completely broken, but there is a sprain and a small hairline crack. It is not large enough for the bone to have been moved, but I think it is best to keep it wrapped up and stabilized for the next few days."He opened his mouth, wishing to know what had happened, but a quick throat-clearing from Thranduil made him pause. The Peredhel rose his eyebrows at the Elvenking but kept his questions to himself. As the two Elf Lords began to wrap and splint Esgal's wrist, Thranduil began speaking to the young elf in order to distract him."How are you liking the gardens in the Hidden Valley, Esgal?"The elf smiled even as he winced. "They are wonderful. The trees are all so bright here.""Yes they are." Thranduil responded. "Though they can become lonely too, because certain Noldor elves are incapable of taking the time to speak with trees. They're too busy breathing dust in their studies—"Elrond paused in his work long enough to whack the Elvenking on the side of his head. The indignity was worth it however when Esgal laughed softly into his right hand."It is a good thing that we are here to keep the trees company then," the young elf offered with a small smile. He looked up, violet-eyes curious. "How long are you remaining here, My Lord?""Please, call me Thranduil," the Elvenking said. "I will be taking advantage of Elrond's hospitality for another few weeks."Esgal nodded, then paused. "But who is running your kingdom then, My Lo— Thranduil?"Elrond and Glorfindel finished binding the assassin's wrist, and crept out, the two not even noticing."Aglar is performing my duties for the duration of my absence," Thranduil explained, and a thoughtful expression appeared on his face. "I wonder how he is doing right now..."LOTRLOTRLOTRAglar, Crown Prince of Mirkwood, abandoned all the dignity one of his status should uphold, laying his head down on his father's desk and groaning miserably. Next to him, Barhad quirked an eyebrow at his brother."Is something the matter?""How can there be so much paperwork?" the silver-haired elf moaned. "I swear that my hand hurts more than it did when I first wielded my sword.""How terrible." Barhad said, unsympathetic. "Here's some more documents that need your signature." He dumped another pile of papers onto the desk, ignoring his brother's moan. "I don't see what your problem is." the golden-haired elf continued. "You've covered for Ada before.""For only a week at the most. He's been away for a month!" the Crown Prince said exasperatedly.Barhad looked down at his lap, hands clenching together tightly. "He can stay in Rivendell as long as he wants. He needs time away from the Shadow. So do Fael... and Bereneth."Aglar internally flinched at the taut pain in the older twin's voice. Their sister had been steadily growing more distant from all of them for the past couple hundred years, even after she made up with Hannel. She grew angrier, colder, harsher, shutting them all out one by one until only Barhad remained as her shoulder to cry on. But even he had been rejected in the last five years, his twin pulling away and refusing to share her thoughts and feelings with him any longer.The "spar" with Esgal had been the final blow, and Thranduil had become determined to figure out what was changing his daughter. His efforts had been fruitless, until a month ago he had decided that he, Fael, and Bereneth would be taking a trip to Rivendell. The well-known purpose of the visit was merely to visit old friends. The more secretive purpose was to get the Elvenking and the second Princess out of the Shadowed forest, in the hope that some time with Light trees in the Ring-protected realm would let her heal, or at least gather her thoughts.Far away in Mirkwood, Aglar had no idea if Thranduil was gaining any leeway in his attempt to just figure out what Bereneth was thinking and the reasons for her actions. The worry was a heavy weight in the back of his mind, and at first he had been glad for all the Kingly duties to distract him. Now, however..."Why should I care about this?" he demanded, gesturing at a document. "It is just a quarrel between neighbors over where the elleth is putting her family's laundry!"Barhad peered over his shoulder. "That's normal. The people have disagreements like that all the time."Aglar stared incredulously at him. "The Elvenking is busy fighting the Shadow, directing patrols, making trade agreements, keeping the Councilors happy, and many other things, yet people want him to decide who is right in an argument over laundry?""You sound happy to be doing paperwork," a familiar voice said in a cheerful and teasing tone.Megilag entered the room, carrying a basket with a cloth covering its contents."I can see why Ada rarely has time to go outside anymore," the Crown Prince said dryly. "I never truly realized how much he must do.""Maybe you will help him and me do all of this from now on then?" Barhad asked.He received a unanimous "No" in response."I brought you something that might cheer you up." Megilag said, carefully placing his burden down on a cleared space on the desktop.With a flourish he moved the cloth aside, revealing its contents. Inside the basket was an assortment of pastries. Both Barhad and Aglar perked up, both reaching for the desserts. The Crown Prince paused, staring at his brother suspiciously."You didn't bake these did you?"Megilag scowled at him. "No. Cook did. But my cooking isn't that bad!""The last time you cooked, the healers thought someone had tried to assassinate Ada." Barhad said flatly, a cake in one hand and a book in the other. If Aglar did not know any better, he would swear that his brother read when he slept."There was also that time you almost burned down the palace." Aglar added mock-thoughtfully. "Wait, I meant times.""Name them." Megilag challenged.The Crown Prince looked at his golden-haired brother. Barhad began listing off the incidents. "You were trying to cook soup and caught it on fire. You were making biscuits and caught those on fire. Then you tried to get them out and caught the hot mitts on fire. Then you were trying to boil water, boiled all of the water out of the pan, burnt the pan, and caught it on fire. Then there was the time you were trying to impress that elleth and instead burned her eyebrows off... Are you seeing a pattern?""I think I do." Aglar said seriously. "We need to figure out a way to use your pyrotechnical powers for good, Megilag."The second-oldest Prince glowered at his brothers. "I'm not going to stand here and be insulted. I'm almost late to my meeting with the most beautiful elleth in all of Arda..." A dreamy expression crossed the Prince's features."You're courting a maiden?" the silver-haired elf asked, surprised.Megilag had not courted any ellith since Luineth and Legolas died. Aglar was shocked and pleased that his brother was showing a bit of his old hopeless-romantic self. The silver-gold haired Prince turned red."Yes. And I'm almost late. She's a really nice girl. Daughter of a warrior, as graceful as a gazelle..." Megilag sighed.It was amazing how easily his old response came to Aglar's lips. "Is she the one this time, Megilag?" he asked teasingly. "Is she the one you're going to spend eternity with? Because you said that about the last one—""—and the one before that." Barhad added in his soft voice."—and the one before that." Aglar agreed.Megilag huffed. "So this is what I get for being nice to you! Insults and jibes!"He glared at them and turned on his heel, stalking out of the room and leaving his two brothers sniggering behind him. As soon as he was gone, Aglar stood up and stretched, reaching into the basket and plucking out one of the small sweet-cakes that Cook was famous for around the castle.The Prince looked down at the small cake in his hand, and the corners of his mouth lifted upward. This dessert reminded him of Esgal, oddly enough, and what happened shortly after they started their second chance last year...Flashback:Three days after the dwarf party came to Mirkwood, the group from Erebor had long-ago departed, and the party from Rivendell was just leaving. Aglar could hear Glorfindel speaking softly to Esgal, his companions moving around them as they loaded their belongings onto their horses."Are you sure that you do not want to come with us?" the Balrog Slayer was saying, almost too quietly for the Crown Prince to hear.The assassin shook his head and gave his brother a shy smile. "No. I'm going to stay in Mirkwood. I won't be in the palace for much longer. Don't worry, Gwador."Aglar felt the odd surge of jealousy once again, followed swiftly by unexplainable sadness at the thought that Esgal would not be remaining here. Then again, why would he want to stay in the stone palace halls? Why would he wish to remain in a place where half of the warriors did not trust or were cold towards him? It was strange, but now that he had started over with the assassin, the Crown Prince felt very protective of him. The thought of anyone hurting Esgal made his blood boil and his fists clench with rage. He no longer felt suspicious of the violet-eyed elf, and could not understand how he had ever felt like he was an enemy or not to be trusted.The two had spent hours in each others' company and Aglar had quickly become accustomed to the young elf's habits and personality. When they went out into the forest, Esgal was able to name each and every plant tree, shrub, and animal around them. He had shown the Crown Prince a family of foxes— with three cubs— sheltered fearlessly beneath a shadowed tree, the roots protecting them from harm. He had climbed up a still-Light tree, beckoning Aglar up with him, and showing him how the sun shone down on the forest, making even the distant shadowed trees seem bright. The sunlight had sparkled off the leaves up there, above the canopy, and when Esgal had whispered "Isn't it beautiful?" Aglar had to agree. The assassin was closely tied with nature, and could see light and beauty in the darkest places. He was quiet and unwilling to add his opinion if he did not wish to talk, but gentle prodding would reveal a unique wisdom that was shocking to see in one so young. He looked at a person and seemed to see their soul, knowing if something was wrong and trying his best to fix it. He cared greatly, and did not like to see anyone hurt. This trait became obvious when the elf had jumped off a tall tree— scaring Aglar half to death— in order to save a falling baby bird from hitting the ground from a height that would have killed it. Aglar had not even noticed the tiny sparrow, but Esgal had, and saved it. The bird had sat contentedly in the young elf's hands, allowing him to gently stroke its feathers, before Esgal had let it go, watching it fly off clumsily. There had been a sad expression on the assassin's face when he watched it flutter away."Why didn't you keep it?" Aglar had questioned curiously. The violet-eyed elf seemed like the type who had brought home animals to ask if he could keep them as pets, then hid them in his room when his parent said no.Esgal had looked at him with sad, distant eyes and said. "All things deserve to be free. I would not contain it, for I would not wish to be contained."All in all, Esgal's personality when he was not in combat and was not being threatened was the last thing Aglar would expect from an assassin.So the Crown Prince understood— a little bit— why Esgal would not remain in the palace for much longer. The stone was too constricting, society too demanding, and the elf needed to be free. That did not mean that Aglar did not wish that his friend would remain here with him. The thought of Esgal being out in the woods, alone, sent panic through him and fear racing up his spine, even though he knew the assassin was perfectly capable of taking care of himself.They all watched the Rivendell party ride away, disappearing quickly between the trees. Aglar walked up to Esgal, heart twisting at the saddened expression on his face."You don't have to stay here if you do not want to." the Crown Prince informed him quietly.The assassin sighed, but then his back straightened. "I'll only be here a day more. Then I'll be gone."Aglar looked at him. You do not have to prove anything to anyone, he thought but did not say. I can tell you do not feel safe here... and I don't understand why that hurts me so much. "Do you want to come with me to the kitchens?" he offered. "Cook should just be pulling something out of the oven.""All right." Esgal agreed.Cook had indeed just finished baking something. Aglar grinned at the mouthwatering scent of fresh pastries and cakes entered his nose. He reached out and gently touched one of the small personal-sized cakes Cook had just taken out of the oven. Satisfied that he would not be burned, he picked up the cake and took a big bite out if it. Next to him, Esgal sniffed, a curious look on his face."What is this?"The Crown Prince almost choked, staring at the assassin with disbelief. "You've never had one before?""No..." Esgal said slowly.Aglar picked up another of the small desserts, giving it to the assassin. "Try it." he ordered.The violet-eyed elf took a small nibble, and looked startled, taking a more hefty bite. "It's good.""Of course it is." the silver-haired elf said. "It's cake. It's usually a wonderful treat... unless Megilag is baking." He shivered.Cook reentered the room to find the two elves. A wary look crossed her face as she spotted Esgal, but she spoke politely to Aglar."Is there anything else I can get for you, My Prince?""No," the Crown Prince replied. "We'll just enjoy these sweet-cakes.""They're very good, ma'am." Esgal added in the soft, quiet voice he used around strangers.Cook looked at him and her eyes softened. If one truly looked as Esgal, seeing past the fact that he was an assassin and a deadly warrior, they could see how young he really was. His years as a loner made him nervous around newcomers— specifically elves— and he had the hesitant caution of any member of their race that was relatively new to the world. He did not yet know his place, and needed guidance to find a place where he belonged.Cook was an old elf, in mind but not body like many of her kind, and knew how to spot a youngster well enough. She could not help but feel maternal towards the hesitant, shy young elf she found sitting in her kitchen, carefully telling her that her cooking was good as if he was afraid she would shout at him for saying the wrong thing."Eat as many as you like, dear." Cook said, piling some more of the sweet-cakes in front of him. He was too thin, she decided. Thin even for an elf. What did he eat out there in the forest? Was he really all alone out there? He really needed to eat more...Esgal had quickly gained a new friend in the palace, and despite having many sweet-cakes forced on him, the elf had taken a great liking to the treat. Still, it was a stark reminder of how much the elf had never been exposed to before, yet Aglar could not feel sad as he thought about this. Instead, he felt determined. Someone needed to show Esgal everything he had missed and was still missing, and the Crown Prince was determined to be the one to do it.He did not know why he needed to become close to the assassin he had rejected at first, but for some reason he felt that it was up to him to right the wrongs done to Esgal by his family. Glorfindel may be the young elf's only big brother now, but somehow Aglar could envision himself coming to be that as well.He was already halfway there. He felt protective of Esgal, even though he could take care of himself. He showed the young elf new things, and introduced him to things he had not encountered before. He worried about the elf when he was gone, was proud of him when he accomplished something, and felt joy within his heart whenever Esgal decided to show him a wonderful discovery out in the forest.The Crown Prince had no clue as to why he was affected about these things, but he honestly did not care. He felt lighter than he had in years. Because to Esgal, he was not the Crown Prince. To Esgal, he was not a revered warrior. To Esgal, he was just an elf, just like the assassin was just an elf to him. Acceptance that the silver-haired elf had not known he had craved had been given to him, and he loved it.Smiling to himself and calmed by happy memories, Aglar bit into the cake.LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: Is it normal for an author to want to punch their own OC? (mutters angrily) Bereneth really knows how to get under Legolas's skin. Deep inside herself, and deep inside himself, they both subconsciously sense that the other is their sibling. This is what makes Legolas (unknowingly) believe and be affected more by his sister's words than he would be by anything else.I just realized how much I love to write Legolas's fights when they are real battles. There is so much more he can do, with all of his weapons and the martial arts moves he can use. I actually had to keep reminding myself that "No, Legolas can't kick hard enough to break someone's leg, then stab them when they're down". Instead I had to make it a mere knock over and a jab. That was a hard fight to write. But still fun. :D It took a while to choose who would fight with Legolas. They would need to be warriors that could hold their own against enemies with larger numbers. Haldir, Thranduil, and Glorfindel seemed like the best choices, for skill and obvious plot reasons. :PKINDA IMPORTANT!: I know I put some of this throughout the story, but here is Legolas's mom and siblings' hair and eye colors:Luineth: silver-blue eyes, silver hairAglar: blue eyes, silver hairHannel:blue eyes, golden hairMegilag: hazel eyes, silver-gold hairBarhad and Bereneth (twins): brown eyes, gold hairFael: green eyes, silver hair*A reviewer pointed out a couple chapters ago that elves only have blue or silver eyes in canon. I'm disregarding that fact, so they can pretty much have any color eyes. I just feel like it gives them more diversity. Also, if I stuck with canon, I would end up giving all of the siblings blue eyes cause I just can't imagine a Mirkwood elf with silver eyes. Silver-blue, yes. Silver...? To me, that's a Lothlorien elf or Elrond-and-family-only color. (shrugs) :)Thank you for all of the awesome reviews, and a special thank you to Imlosiel for giving me a whole bunch of helpful advice! :) Responses to Guest reviews:To "Guest"(1): Thank you!To "Emilz": Thanks!To "Anony-Mouse": Thank you! If the twins pranked Bereneth, Legolas would probably free her. To "Lucy": Thank you! I think you were cut off...To "archangelofloki": Thanks!To "Naomi": Thank you! I don't think I'm going to do more pranks like that. Humor isn't really my thing. I'm glad you liked it though! Yes, Legolas will be "smashing" more orcs. :PTo "Badass Female": Thanks!To "Kryst": Thanks!To "Issy": Thanks! I hope I made the reactions and thoughts satisfactory...To "Lizzy": Thank you for reviewing! I am okay with constructive criticism. It helps me make my writing better. :) Last chapter was an experiment. I tried out a bit of humor and don't think its for me. It was fun to try something new, but I'll stick with the stuff I know I'm good at from now on. As for the "modern" speech, I know. I struggle with tailoring my words to the time period, and sometimes modern words and phrases slip out. That's why I don't use "aye, nay, thou, hark, etc" because I just don't get it. As such, I don't even notice when I put in modern words half the time! I'm slowly working on it, and changing the most obvious ones I spot and some of the ones people mention that can't fit with the time period. To "emi": Thank you! The Celeborn and Esgal official meeting was off-screen, sorry. He accepts Esgal because his wife does. The "He is awake." and "He is coming" are connected to the rising Darkness... Yes, Fael and Haldir are referring to the same "person". The orcs were all connected to the Witch-King so that they could tell him who the Hidden One was if they failed to kill him. How odd it is that they weren't afraid of Hoshvuras this time... All they wanted was to kill him, like their Master ordered... ;)To "Guest"(2): Thanks!To "Guest"(3): Thanks for reviewing and for the info! Wow that's confusing... O_o?Please review!


********** Page 21 **********

A/N: Finally, an update! Want to know why it took so long? My stupid laptop deleted half of the chapter! :( Yes, you read that right. I had most of it done, and it deleted/exchanged about 3,000 words of it after my computer crashed! It had a pretty (note the sarcasm) cream screen and went dead! And it wouldn't recover the chapter! :( Good news though: I finally got a new laptop on Monday. And I now save my files on a flash drive too. Yay! (does a happy dance) Take that you piece of junk! With that being said, if parts of this chapter seemed rushed or forced, that's because it probably is. I felt like I made you wait long enough, so here's the chapter.LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Twenty: What I AmTA 2981 (30 years ago...)Legolas sat on the edge of a cliff, breathing in the salty air of the sea. He could feel distant drops of spray tickling his face but did not move, not bothered by the cold droplets of water. After many years of absence, the elf was returning to Blue Harbor. It had been nearly fifty years since he last set foot within the trading village, and wished to look upon the town of Ciaran's birth once again.After Drust's forced exile, Blue Harbor and its citizens had quickly recovered, ousting the corrupt man's thugs and returning the village to its former glory. The village had been prospering the last few times Legolas had gone there, and he found the town to be a good spot to just sit and relax alone with his thoughts, or observe travelers from around Middle-earth. There were no orcs, no Darkness, and no threats to speak of, the Shadow's reach not yet touching this distant edge of the world.The assassin watched the waves clash against the cliff below him, the rhythmic roaring and thundering oddly calming to his ears. Although he had long ago heard of the "sea-longing" of the elves, he felt no pain in his heart or ache in his soul whenever he neared the ocean. He supposed it was because of his mental shields, and could not find even an ounce of his being that was not glad that he was unaffected by the sea's call.The very thought of something trying to influence his thoughts and mind made an angry fire blaze in his chest. Nothing would contain him. Nothing would control him. He would be his own person, and choose his own path and fate. He was wild and free... much like the sea.Below him, the sea writhed, unable to be tamed. It crashed against the cliff again and again, rolling back to gain strength before raging against the wall of stone once more. It sent shots of spray soaring into the air, tiny flecks of water spreading and drying up.However, the ocean's depth and strength endured, moving and roaring as it would for many years to come. It crashed against the cliff he sat on, again and again and again, and while the earth was sturdy and unmovable, it chipped away slowly as the waves wore against it.Yes, if Legolas were to compare himself one of these things of nature, he would say he was the sea. It was not in his personality to wait and endure like the earth. He fought and attacked, striking off little pieces of the Shadow that refused to fade. If he was startled, he would reel back and lash out with even greater strength, determined in his resolve to make a difference against the seemingly immovable enemy he faced.Ironically, most of the rest of his kin would be the cliff, not the sea that they longed for. They endured, only attacking if they were attacked, riding out the storm and not taking a large part in the overall war against the Shadows. They defended their own borders but rarely went out to strike the enemy first. As stoic as stone, most of them were, but with every passing year their strength and hold waned...At that moment, a large chunk of rock crumbled away from the cliff, landing in the sea with a large splash seen even amongst the waves. Legolas watched as the ripples the stone's plummet made vanished amongst the chaos of the ocean. The rock was gone as if it never existed made to disappear by the sea it had joined with. Just like how the elves would vanish from all thought and memory one day, as the world of Man took hold.It seems cruel, to make the elves depart once this land is finally free of the Great Darkness, the assassin mused. It is not their fault that the Shadows that have sunk into the very pores of this world. Darkness so deep that once the time comes, all elves must leave Middle-earth, or risk fading into nothingness... All except me.This was the disadvantage of coming to such a peaceful place. It gave him time to think. About the Darkness, about the shadowed trees, about the slowly-coming conflict, about the future... and about other topics he would rather avoid.Even in Mirkwood he had no trouble keeping busy and not-thinking about things. There were always things to do, people to see, and enemies to fight. Legolas looked down at the roiling sea and laughed bitterly to himself. It seemed, no matter where he was, he could not find serenity for long. Here, he had time to think. In Rivendell, there were the Shadowed Elves to worry about. Lothlorien was too bright and high-class for his tastes. And Mirkwood... Mirkwood was not the same place it had been to him years ago.He was glad that he had revealed himself to the shadowy forest's inhabitants, he really was, but there were downsides that lingered even after all this time. He loved roaming the woods with Aglar, pranking with Fael, reading and debating with Barhad, and teasing Megilag about his cooking. He loved whenever Thranduil would walk with him, talk with him, and oddly enough act like a parent to the violet-eyed elf at times. He loved to watch the warriors spar, and eat the sweet-cakes that Cook always made for him.But all of these things were not enough to make him want to stay in the palace or even near it for long periods of time. For some reason, he found the place disturbing. The walls seemed to close in around him, the people seemed to stare and want to much, and no matter how hard Legolas tried he did not feel safe there.It was not because of Bereneth, although the Princess's behavior had remained cold, mocking, and angry towards him. Her punishment for harming him many years ago had been almost worse than exile to Bereneth. Her sentence had been extended indefinitely, and she was bound within the palace and the grounds. No patrolling, no fighting, she was not even allowed to spar anymore. To the proud warrior Princess, one might as well have taken her right arm and be done with it. Legolas felt slight sympathy for Bereneth, but all of his attempts at being friendly were met with anger and sneers. He found it better to avoid the Princess completely if he could.But wariness of Bereneth was not what made Legolas unnerved and edgy in the palace. The reason was deeper, much deeper in his subconsciousness, and only with a thorough internal inspection did the elf realize what bothered him so greatly that he was on edge in the Elvenking's home.He felt like they would not let him leave.The thought was ridiculous and completely unfounded, but for an unknown reason, Legolas felt like the elves of Mirkwood would force him to stay there. That they would not let him step foot outside of the palace grounds if he was not careful. But why would he think that? Why would he believe that the elves would one day trap him in the palace, and would not let him go..?Legolas stopped this train of thought before it could continue. The assassin sighed, serenity completely forgotten, and rose to his feet, turning his back on the sea. Musings and thoughts were useless now, and as such were not worth thinking or worrying about. All he needed to be concerned with was here and now. Not the future or the past, or anything else. He was just going to Blue Harbor, and there he would get away from it all.Or so he hoped.The violet-eyed elf wandered slowly through the forest, head tilted back and eyes closed. The trees rustled their golden, orange, and red leaves, the first signs of autumn crossing the land. The emerald greens of the forest were now the colors of a sunset, beautiful ambers, oranges, and reddish-pink leaves molding and ranging from leaf to leaf. It was as if the trees were determined to give one last beautiful thing to the world before they entered the deep slumber that took them during the cold winter months.Although autumn saddened Legolas because the trees would be silent, he also loved the season, for its colors and the coolness of the fresh air. He breathed it in now, the scent he associated with the season and coming snow entering his nose. The leaves beneath his feet were crisp but did not crunch beneath his feet, and he ghosted through the transformed forest like a spirit born there himself.Around him, the trees whispered softly, filled with joy that the only elf they had ever met had returned once again. Elves never came to this wood. To come here was to risk getting the sea longing. Any elves that approached the sea went further south, and their only intention was to leave. As first the trees had not known what to do with the not-glowing star-child that they had found in their midst, but eventually they spoke to and accepted him as readily as a tree would in a realm the elves commonly passed through.Legolas only half listened as the trees murmured to him, greeting him, speaking of the sea, and whispering to each other about benign, calming things. He listened as they sang of nature, not as beautifully as the Golden trees in Lothlorien but still wonderful and sweet.These trees, though not as Light as some he had met, brought peace to his heart, for they knew nothing of the Darkness— not yet— and were as innocent and free as trees could be. In a way, they were almost like the hobbits that made their home further south. Content, ignorant, and in a realm of absolute peace. The elf prayed that the peace would last here a while longer.His own peace, however, was not destined to remain.Like a feather brushing against his mind, he sensed six men approaching. They were not on horses but their pace was harried and fast, heading steadily towards him. Legolas did not even stop to think, leaping up into the trees and peering down through the branches, waiting for them to come.Loud and abrasive, shattering the serenity of the forest, the men trampled into view, five gathered around the sixth and hurrying him along. The man was cloaked, gagged, and bound. A prisoner. The assassin only needed to touch the presences of the men to recognize the captive.It was none other than Aragorn.If the men were orcs, or they were closer to a land more touched by Shadow, Legolas would have killed them all and freed Aragorn immediately. As it was, the only close town was Blue Harbor. For all the assassin knew, the Ranger may have been arrested for a minor offense.Still, the way that the men were rushing along and glaring at Aragorn worried the hidden assassin. All of the men were dressed in travel-worn clothes, but moved with a diligence and unity that spoke of training. Were they guards or soldiers of some type? Legolas would follow and observe to try to find out more about the situation.Keeping up with the men's rushed pace, the elf followed silently in the treetops like a ghost flitting among the leaves. Below him, Aragorn did not struggle against his captors, letting himself be forced along. His hair was slightly disheveled and there was a bruise on his cheek, but other than that, the man was unharmed.However, although the Ranger's expression was carefully neutral, Legolas could spot the confusion and alarm in his eyes. The man may have become better at hiding his emotions, but the assassin was much more skilled than he, and could see through his mask easily. How could he not, when he so commonly wore a facade of indifference himself?The men did not shove Aragorn, but they did try to drag him along, not pausing even if he stumbled. There was anger in their postures and coldness in their eyes, and Legolas began to question his decision to stay out of it until he knew more. He decided that, this time, it would be better to wait than to attack preemptively.However, the men's path soon veered away from the direction of Blue Harbor, going further inland. So the village was not their destination after all. Concern mounting, the silent observer stalked them, unnoticed and unseen even by his friend.Soon, the presences of seventy other men entered his awareness, and he realized that they were headed towards a camp of some sort. The men could have merely been traveling through the land, and not wished to pay for a hotel in the trading village, but Legolas doubted it.They came to a large camp set up just a few miles from Blue Harbor. Legolas stayed above the men he stalked, watching as men— all armed— walked about the camp, speaking to each other and preparing for... something. A quick sweep of observance revealed blades being sharpened, bandages being rolled, and maps being pored over. These men were expecting a battle. The only question was, with who?The elf counted the men once more, calculating in his head, and his dread only increased. There were over seventy men here, and although Blue Harbor was well off, it only had twenty soldiers for protection. It was wealthy but small, and defending itself was not one of its strong suits. It normally would not have to fight against an enemy force of this size.The assassin's attention returned to Aragorn and his captors as they entered the camp. The men around them paused as they passed, confused expressions appearing on many faces. Then, abruptly, their moods would change, turning into ones of disgust, rage, and anger as their eyes fell upon the Ranger. Most glared at the man, others turned away, but some spat at Aragorn's feet.Legolas could think of two reasons as to why the men were acting this way. They either knew Aragorn and— for some reason— hated him personally, or they hated Rangers in general. Added to the fact that they were most likely planning to invade a peaceful town, the elf's timid belief that they may be honorable, good souls faded into nothing.If it had not at that time, it would have vanished when one of the men stepped forward, striking the Ranger across the face. The elf's hands twitched but he refrained from grabbing his bow, forcing himself to watch with burning violet eyes as the man sneered down at his friend."Ranger scum." the man spat.His arm rose again, and none of the men around them even twitched as he prepared to strike Aragorn once more. Above them, Legolas put an arrow to his bow, not drawing it back but ready to shoot nonetheless. He did not care that he was heavily outnumbered. If that Delorcion touched his friend again..."Enough." a deep, cool voice said.The throng of men that had gathered around Aragorn, his captors, and his abuser parted, a blue-cloaked figure walking through their midst. He was flanked by two more invaders, and Legolas could tell he was the leader. There was a confidence in his posture and a command in his voice that could only be found in rulers. He was used to being obeyed, or else.But the thing that struck the assassin most was that he was dangerous. Something about the man— hidden under the surface like magma under a layer of stone— put him on edge. Underneath the calm leader was something nasty and vile, oddly dormant but waiting to break free. It was not like the Shadow he could sense in some, but was a different kind of evil. The natural evil of a corrupt, angry man. An evil brought out by one's own actions and thoughts, created by someone so overcome by hatred and rage they were lost...In a world so greatly affected by the Darkness, it was easy to forget that normal evils and bad men existed. Not all cruelty came from the Shadow, and not all evil was borne of Darkness. Sometimes, the natural corruption of a person was enough to make them as bad as any orc. That was what the assassin sensed in this man.Eyes not leaving the newcomer, Legolas shifted the path his arrow would take. The leader was the biggest threat. If he so much as moved threateningly towards Aragorn, he would be dead before he knew he had been shot.Aragorn's captors forced the Ranger down to his knees, the leader looming over him. The cloaked man stared down at Aragorn, and the silver-eyed man glared up at the leader. Then the leader's hands lifted, and he pulled back his hood, revealing his face.For a heart-pounding moment, Legolas swore it was Drust. The man standing there had the same black hair, brown eyes, facial shape, and features. Only a closer inspection proved it could not be Ciaran's brother— other than the fact that the man would be over four hundred years old by now. The man glaring down at Aragorn was taller than Drust, with slightly broader shoulders and a small dark mark on his cheek under his eye, most likely a scar."Who are you and what are you doing here, Ranger?" the man said coldly.Aragorn was dignified and firm despite being forced to kneel in the mud. He stared right into the man's eyes, unimpressed and unafraid. "My name is Strider. I was merely traveling through this realm when your men arrested me."The leader's lips curled and he looked down at the Ranger as if he were dung he had found on the bottom of his boot. "Rangers are not welcome in this realm.""Who are you to decide who may travel through these lands?" Aragorn asked.His voice was not confrontational, exactly, the man hiding any disbelief or scorn at the leader's arrogance behind a facade of careful neutrality. But anger still flared to life in the leader's eyes, and his features darkened dangerously."I have more of a right than anyone. I am Riagán, grandson of Drust. My grandfather the last Lord of Blue Harbor. After his father died, he was wrongfully usurped and exiled by a Ranger."Legolas looked upon the newly-introduced Riagán with understanding, shock, pity, and disgust. So you are related to Drust... You have your grandfather's image, and his desires it seems. I wonder, was it your mother or father that raised you to hate Rangers... and embedded the need to regain your "rightful place" in Blue Harbor. Based on your personality and these men that follow you..."Let me guess. You wish to claim your grandfather's old position." Aragorn said. His silver eyes moved over the men before returning to the leader. "And you plan on invading and conquering to do it.""Of course." Riagán responded coolly. "I seek to regain my family's throne. You must understand my desire to have what is rightfully mine. After all, aren't one of you descended from the line of Kings, and meant to ascend the throne of Gondor?"Aragorn stiffened but did not respond.Riagán noted his silence with disdain, scoffing lightly. "That is what I thought. I know what you're thinking. That is different. If and when Isildur's Heir regains his throne, he won't use violence... Yes, this is different. I'm afraid that I have run out of patience, and the only way to reclaim what is mine is through force. Fear is the only way to have absolute control, and what better way to inspire fear than to invade, with a force that wipes out their foes..."There it was. A hint of the dangerous menace lurking behind Riagán's guise of coldness momentarily shone. His eyes changed, a dark gleam appearing in their depths, and for a moment it was like a warg was staring out at the Ranger. Then it vanished once more like it never existed, but Legolas found himself feeling oddly disturbed. There was something very wrong with that man. Aragorn seemed to sense it as well and kept his silence.Riagán took a deep breath, and the calmness snapped back into place. He glanced at the sun, then looked to the men that still guarded Aragorn. "I'm afraid we are out of time for now, Ranger. Take him to a tent and tie him up. Leave him there, guard him, and give him nothing. We will continue this conversation later."Stunned by the abrupt dismissal, the Ranger did not resist as the men dragged him away. Instead of following, Legolas stayed where he was, narrowed eyes staying on Riagán. The man was a confusing enigma, explaining yet not explaining his purpose and desires, yet something about him bothered the elf deeply. It was not that he looked like his grandfather, not at all. It was deeper than that. There was something decidedly off about Drust's grandson. The assassin just could not put his finger on it...Disregarding this worry, the elf turned his thoughts to trying to figure out how to rescue Aragorn and take care of the threat that the soon-to-be-invaders posed on Blue Harbor. A solution was quick to come to mind, as it was wont to do for Legolas.The plan was simple. Silent and deadly. Quick and without a fuss. A touch of death, without fanfare or flair. That was the way an assassin killed, and once Legolas thought about it, it was how he had not killed in... quite a while.Perhaps that was why he felt a single millisecond of uncertainty before he scoffed at himself and squashed it, hardening his resolve. He supposed, with a shadow of the past haunting him, it would only make sense for him to return to his roots as well.The assassin reached into his pocket, and pulled out a small, simple vial.A vial which held death.LOTRLOTRLOTRAragorn could not believe his luck. Or lack of it, to be more specific. He was tied to a post in one of the many tents in the invaders' tents. The ropes were wrapped firmly around his torso with his arms pinned to his sides, preventing him from moving. All of his weapons had been taken from him, and no matter what he tried he could not get free. The bonds were tight, not enough to cut off his circulation but still quite uncomfortable. In other words, he was stuck.The Ranger leaned his head back against the wooden pole, sighing deeply. He had to think of a way out of here before Riagán decided to deal with him. He did not know why the man had halted his conversation with his captive, but whatever the man had gone to do would not last long. Aragorn knew that Riagán would not let him go, which left him who knew how long to get himself free. Three hours had already passed, and he was making no leeway.I should have known better than to look into this alone, the Ranger silently berated himself. Rumors usually tend to end up being more than that, and I should have known not to go looking for a large group of men by myself. I did not even tell anyone where I was going, and none will notice if I go missing. Rule One for investigating potentially dangerous situations: Tell someone that you are investigating said situation.Aragorn closed his eyes, thinking up and discarding plans to escape the situation he had found himself in. It was not like an ally would magically appear to assist him—"You have terrible luck, do you know that?" a soft voice asked.If he were not tied to a pole. Aragorn would have jumped a foot in the air. His head jerked and he stared at the figure that stood in the doorway of the tent. Violet eyes seemed to gleam out of the darkness before Esgal stepped into his sight, hood up and face-mask covering his lower face.Aragorn closed his eyes tightly, head hanging in defeat. "...Just get me out of here."The assassin nodded and cut his bonds, the irritating ropes falling away like nothing. The Ranger stumbled to his feet, wincing slightly. He quickly stretched the kinks out of his muscles."Where's my—"Esgal handed him his weapons."...Thank you."He glanced at the tent flap suspiciously, wondering how much time they had before someone stumbled upon them. Then again, no one had entered the tent since the men had tied him up in here."What's your plan for getting out of here?" Aragorn asked the elf.The assassin did not respond.The man blinked and turned to his friend. "Esgal...?"Esgal looked at him, and Aragorn froze. The elf's eyes— his normally bright violet eyes— were dark, more like a dark plum than the brilliant purple that the man was used to. His eyes were cold, and more detached than the Ranger had ever seen, the apathy in them sending a chill up Aragorn's spine.The assassin did not speak, merely swept out of the tent. Aragorn, wary and uncertain, followed him... and halted in his tracks just outside. His eyes widened, his mouth fell open, and fear made his heart pound wildly in his chest. For a moment he could not think or breath, his mind refusing to believe what his eyes were seeing. It was so unexpected and shocking that for a moment he could not respond to the sight he beheld.After nothing but mind-numbing shock, Aragorn managed to choke out a single word. "H-How...?"Because around him, laying in the fallen leaves, mud, and dirt, every single man in the camp was dead. The Ranger was suddenly struck by how silent the camp was. Unnaturally, tensely silent. The silence that camp with a lack of life. Only the wind made a noise, whistling softly through the camp of the dead, the occasionally rustle of cloth being the only noise within it.Aragorn had seen more bodies at once in his life, and those in much worse shape, but this sight chilled him like an icy winter night. The men showed no wounds, and many had their eyes closed as if they had merely fallen asleep, but the paleness of their skin and the stillness of their chests showed that they would never wake. More than seventy men, all alive and whole earlier, were now dead.And Aragorn had had no idea.Esgal observed his reaction with the same blank expression he had been wearing, not reacting to his friend's horror and shock. In a flat, cool voice he responded to the Ranger's question. "They had lunch two hours ago. It was easy enough to slip poison into their food.""They're all dead?" Aragorn murmured distantly. "You killed them all.""Yes." the assassin stated."But they... That's not..." The Ranger's eyes were wide, a youthful confusion entering his eyes that had not been seen in years.Esgal remained distant and detached. "What is it?""You... You didn't give them a chance." Aragorn said at last.The assassin regarded him with those icy calculating eyes. "I understand. I know what you are thinking. You think that I should have confronted them like a warrior. You think I should have done what you would have done. You, and any warriors, would have escaped. You would have knocked out or killed the guards, and stolen a horse. Then you would ride off, your enemies shooting at and chasing after you.""Perhaps you would have escaped, perhaps not. If so, you would have sought out Blue Harbor, then warned them about the threat against them. They would rally behind you, and you would defend the town against the invaders. Maybe you would win. Maybe you would not. But the point is, a battle would take place, and your enemies would be given a "chance". That is the way that warriors defeat their foes."Violet eyes pierced Aragorn, pinning him in place. "Assassins are different, and an assassin is what I am. We work alone and eliminate threats, sometimes before they can become ones. We are not leaders. We do not seek out other to aid us and do not wait for open battles to strike. We strike from the shadows, and we do not give "chances". We kill."The cold mask that Esgal wore cracked, and the dark color of the elf's eyes seemed to change into a sadder, lighter hue. "You are horrified by this. You were raised to find glory in face-to-face battles. You forget that I am not like you. I am not only a warrior, but an assassin. If I see an opportunity to eliminate my enemies, I take it."Aragorn peeled his eyes away from the dead men around him, looking into the elf's solemn violet gaze. It was in that moment that he realized that the elf truly was saddened by the death around him, and with that came the knowledge that the coldness and apathy was a defense mechanism for the elf. He had to detach himself in order for him to carry out the terrible mission he had to complete. He was an assassin, and sometimes that meant doing things no normal warrior would have the strength or vitality to do."I understand." the Ranger said softly. "I apologize for judging you. I forget that you are an assassin at times."Esgal's eyes softened further, becoming their normal bright violet, but the sadness lingered in his expression and gaze. "I never forget that I am."No more words needing to be said, the assassin walked away, and the warrior hurried after him.LOTRLOTRLOTRRiagán walked slowly back towards his men's camp, thoughts clear and calm after his stroll through the forest. It was always helpful to have a place to go clear his head, especially when his thoughts began to cloud with rage and vengeance. The man did not know why his mind played with him like this, forcing him to separate himself into two in order to remain the collected leader his men needed to see.His anger was a terrible thing, and could become a blinding and unstoppable lust for blood if left unchecked. He hid it behind a mask of calm and power, the traits of a proper leader, but still the rage simmered at the back of his mind. Riagán did not know what caused it, but when the anger overcame him he wanted nothing more than to make people suffer.At these times he did not care about being a leader. He did not care about regaining his family's honor. He wanted to show his power. He wanted to show that he was one to be feared. Deep down, that was what he wanted: Fear. Fear, control, and to strike down any who opposed him...Riagán blinked and breathed slowly through his nose, out through his mouth. The facade of calm was back in place, though it had been strained close to breaking earlier. The mere sight of the Ranger making the man want to strike him down, to watch and laugh as his lifeblood spilled on the forest floor. After all, it had been a Ranger that had caused his grandfather's exile, and who had denied him of his birthright. In Blue Harbor, he would have fear and control, and maybe then the rage inside him that he did not understand would be sated.The man stepped into the camp boundaries, and halted as abruptly as a bird flying into a window. His brown eyes roamed the area before him and his knees trembled, giving way. He fell to the dirt, pain shooting through his kneecaps, and looked around him with befuddled confusion.His men were lying haphazardly around the camp, silent, unmoving, and most definitely dead."No..." Riagán whispered, staring blankly at the corpses around him. Then his expression twisted into one of pure rage, and he screamed in anger. "No no NO!"He rose to his feet, tearing through the camp, pushing objects and bodies aside as he raced to the tent where the Ranger was being kept. He ripped the tent flap out of the way, revealing a space that was empty except for cut ropes. He picked up the ropes, gripping it in his hand, before shouting his fury and throwing it away in disgust.The Ranger had escaped. The Ranger had killed his men. The Ranger had thwarted his plan before Blue Harbor even became aware of it!The rage bubbled up, boiling and red, and for once Riagán did not try to hold it back. How dare that Ranger defeat him, after he had worked so hard to gather the forces he needed to regain his throne! He had been so close! The invasion had been tomorrow! But now years of work and planning were gone, having died with his men! His men. No one had the right to kill his men except him!The Ranger— Strider's— face was burnt into Riagan's mind. Dark hair, silver eyes, and a proud chin were all recalled with perfect clarity, searing themselves into the man's very soul. His anger focused, screaming for blood, for fear, for vengeance."I'll kill him..." Riagán snarled, eyes dark with hate. "I'll kill him..."The Ranger may have thought he won, but the strength of his ancestors ran through Riagán's veins. His grandfather had failed to regain his power and honor. Drust failed to get his revenge against the Rangers that ruined his life. Riagán would not be a failure. He would hunt the one who shamed him until his last breath, and when his path crossed "Strider's" again, he would be sure to greet the silver-eyed man warmly... with a sword to the heart.LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: Two antagonists revealed. One to go. Riagán will make more sense later. Next time you see him, he is going to be a LOT more dangerous... and ruthless... and slightly deranged... and bent on revenge... and he'll be killing people. A lot of people. (Is that a spoiler?) In future chapters he kinda scares me a little... O_O' By the way, he is a Dunedan. That means he has a while left to live. A note you may want to take note of: I just realized how much of a difference seven years makes for some characters. As such, I will be increasing a couple people's ages a little when I hit "The Present". Pippin, Merry, Sam, Eowyn, and Eomer will be aged up a couple years. Let's just say that the AU caused them to be born a little earlier, shall we? I'm really annoyed cause I didn't think that seven years would make such a difference for some characters. Then I found a timeline and it showed when people were born... (scowls) I won't mention exact ages unless someone asks later on. This is just for my peace of mind. :) BTW: If you calculated you would see that "The Present" happens in Third Age 3011. Canon LotR was in Third Age 3018. Thank you to everyone who reviewed! Sorry, but I'm not doing review responses for last chapter now. Quite frankly I don't have the patience right now to scroll through the pages to find the Guest reviews. In other words, I'm majorly irritated right now. :( I'll try to respond to Guests who reviewed for last chapter in the next chapter. Sorry that I didn't respond to you. All reviews are greatly appreciated, and I love you all. (hugs) :)Next chapter is in TA 2991. The chapter after that is "the Present". And the chapter after that marks the start of Part Two.Please review!


********** Page 22 **********

A/N: Sorry for the wait. Life got in the way. End of story. This was written in sections so if it seems choppy in places, sorry.WARNING: Dark stuff happens this chapter. Said "dark stuff" includes character death and non-explicit allusions to torture. There is fluff between the dark stuff, but don't let your guard down.LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Twenty-One: The End of PeaceThird Age 2991 (20 years ago...)It all began with a fish.The simple, unknowing fish swam lazily in a clear pond, oblivious to all in the world except finding food and surviving for another day. It did not care about the world, or the Shadows, or anything except itself. And yet this fish had gotten the complete attention of someone, a predator intent on ending its life.The pale white creature, sat at the side of the pool, large blue eyes following the silver fish in the water. It had little hair anywhere on its body, only wearing a tattered loincloth for decency, and it was difficult to label it as any race found on Middle-earth. It— he— had been a hobbit once, but the curls, and looks of his race had long since vanished, weathered away by time, misery, and Darkness. A dirty, chipped-nailed hand rose, slow and deliberate, as the hunched creature waited for the right moment to strike."We only wish, to catch a fish, so juicy sweeeettttt," Gollum sang softly in a terrible voice, staring greedily at the scaled animal.He waited a moment longer than lunged, grabbing the fish straight out of the water and biting into it fiercely. Its blood dripped grotesquely down Gollum's chin, and the fish writhed twice in agony before going still. Not caring how disgusting his meal was, the thin not-quite-hobbit devoured his catch savagely, focused completely on his task.He did not pay attention to his surroundings as he should have been. He was in Southern Mirkwood, the darkest part of the forest that was still dangerous. Even though Dol Guldur was mostly vacant, this part of the woods still belonged to Darkness, and orc patrols could be commonly found.But Gollum did not care about orcs. He just wanted his fiiiisssshhh, and once he was done he would continue to search for Baggins and the Precious. Twisted and mutilated as the creature's mind was, he could not make the connection to go to the Shire and find Baggins. He needed to find the Precious, but he did not truly wish to search for it. Deep inside of him a fear had been sewn, and the trees of the realm around him were only disorientating, angering, and terrifying him more.Still, the single thought drove him onwards: Shire. Baggins. Shire. Baggins.Gollum glowered at his reflection, muttering angrily to himself. "Thief stole it from us. It stole our Precious. But we wills get it back, we wills. It is our Precious. Ours! Not filthy Bagginses..."Narrowed blue eyes glared back at the white creature and he growled, baring the few yellowed teeth he possessed. He tore another chunk of flesh from the fish, continuing to eat in a way that would make many cringe. He turned slightly away from the pool, ignoring his reflection, and continued to speak to himself, oblivious to all around him.As such, he did not see the orcs until it was too late.A few weeks later, in Minas Morgul, agonized screams ripped through the air."SHIIIIIIIIRRRRRREEE! BAGGGGIIIIINNNNSSSS!"Gollum lay curled up into a ball on the floor, shuddering and sobbing. Around him, the orcs who had been "playing" with him backed away, allowing their master to come close to the broken creature. The Witch-King looked down on the bloodied and trembling Gollum with contempt. The creature writhed and wailed piteously, but the Nazgûl felt nothing but building triumph and joy.He grabbed the creature roughly by his shoulder, lifting him up so that they were face-to-face. Gollum was struck mute, blue eyes wide with terror as his gaze met the Nazgûl's. The dark flames that served as the Witch-King's eyes were like ice settling in his soul, a coldness entering Gollum that was almost as terrible and overpowering as his desire for the Precious."The Ring is in the Shire." the Witch-King stated. "With a hobbit named Baggins."For a moment Gollum was too terrified to respond, but then the Ringwraith's sword rose threateningly. The creature flinched and twisted, crying and screaming once more."Yes! Yes! Shire! Baggins! Thief stole the Precious!" he whimpered.The Witch-King laughed, a terrible, triumphant sound. Finally, after so many years of searching, they had found it. They had found the One Ring.A few minutes later the door to Minas Morgul swung open. The Witch-King and two of his followers flew out on their black dragon-like steeds. The creatures shrieked and roared, bearing their masters away from the tower. They flew swiftly, all of their thoughts focused on their destination: the Shire.They left Gollum on the floor in a pool of red, throat slit, his blue eyes staring blankly at the sky.LOTRLOTRLOTRThe crackling fire popped violently, burning pieces of ember scattering across the floor. Bilbo cursed and leapt to his feet, stomping on the embers before they could catch his rug on fire. He returned to his seat by the merry flames, smiling wryly at Legolas."I am glad you have returned, my friend. Frodo has been asking me when you were returning for the past month." the hobbit shook his head, chuckling softly. "I'm surprised that you did not run into him on your way here. He has been going out into the fields and woods, exploring you know."The elf laughed. He had met Bilbo's young charge many years ago, and the hobbit had yet to get over his awe of the elf. The first few years that Legolas came to visit his hobbit friends, Frodo had followed him around with large eyes, asking him so many questions the the assassin could barely keep up.Many of said questions had begun with "Is it true that elves can—" followed by some supernatural ability that many hobbits thoughts elves were capable of. A few were true— at least partially— but most were ridiculous or entirely false. Legolas did not mind Frodo's curiosity though. The young hobbit asked all of those questions because he truly wanted to know the answer.As the years passed, and Frodo grew older and more mature, he began to ask more in-depth questions, and get over some of his awe in order to see Esgal as a friend. He learned Sindarin under Legolas and Bilbo's tutelage, and he and the elf would have entire conversations in the language of the immortals.Frodo was a quieter hobbit than some of his kin, calmer and more prone to read books. In part that may have been because of Bilbo's fascination with maps and books, but it also may have been because many of the hobbits thought the Bagginses were strange. It was odd how hobbits could be so open-minded and close-minded at the same time.Luckily, Legolas did not add to their "strangeness". His presence in Hobbiton remained a secret. Bilbo still had no idea how the assassin managed to get into his house without being seen, but he did not mind. Frodo did not either, and had readily agreed not to tell his friends of the elf that came to visit once a year. Not even his close friends or cousins— Sam, Merry, and Pippin— knew."Should I go find Frodo?" Legolas asked his friend. "If he is outside looking for me—""Don't worry about it." Bilbo interrupted. "He will come back before lunch." He got up and set a teapot on the fire before returning to his seat, clasping his hands together. "How have you been, Esgal?" the hobbit asked, but Legolas could sense the depth and worry in the question.Bilbo had been asking this question to him for the past few decades... ever since he had revealed himself to the elves of Mirkwood. After everything that had happened since then, Legolas had taken to telling the hobbit what had happened since his last visit.His worries about the elves, his frustration with their society, his fear of being contained, and Bereneth's antagonism were all revealed to his friend. He held nothing back, as close to bearing his soul as he was capable of. Because Bilbo was the only person he trusted to not judge him, or to not retaliate. He would listen, and that was what the assassin truly needed. He just needed someone he trusted to listen to him.Glorfindel may be his brother, but he was still an elf, and Legolas could not let himself tell the Balrog Slayer about his troubles. With the Shadow growing stronger, the Vanyar was becoming increasingly busy, and the assassin did not want to add anything else to his plate of concerns. Plus, Glorfindel might not fully understand where Legolas was coming from. He would try to understand, but understanding was not what the assassin wanted.He just wanted someone to talk to without having to hold back. Besides, if the Vanyar learned of Bereneth and some Mirkwood warrior's continued scorn of his little brother, he would want them punished. Legolas could ignore the warriors and Princess, and did not want the rift between them to grow any greater. In other words, he could handle them himself.Somehow, Bilbo became his confidant, the hobbit always listening and coming up with simple, matter-of-fact ways to deal with issues or at least finding a way to help Legolas laugh. The elf had grown increasingly quiet over the past few decades, more quiet than usual, and with a distant look in his eyes.Whenever Bilbo had asked what was bothering him, the assassin would reply with a simple, "There is so much Darkness in the world." Unknown to Esgal, his words terrified the hobbit. He did not know that he spoke like someone who was exhausted, and who was tired of the world. The elf showed no signs of fading, but his eyes had lost much of their fire and a blank dullness could be found in their violet depths.Legolas was unaware of it, and Bilbo had not known how it had happened, but the assassin had lost his drive. He was overwhelmed and confused, pulled in a thousand directions by his conflicting thoughts and emotions. Legolas's encounter with Riagán had been when he began questioning himself and who he was. Aragorn's initial reaction to the death of the men had stung and had more of an impact than the elf was willing to admit.He was drawn to but scared away from the Elvenking's palace. He was a kind elf and a ruthless assassin. He wanted to let people in, to trust them, but was too afraid and unable to let anyone close to his heart. His secrets wore down upon him, yet he could not let them go. It made him almost hate himself for not even being able to trust his own brother. He was not even sure if he trusted himself.The assassin was a mess of conflicts and questions, the answers remaining far out of his grasp. For the first time n many years, he found himself asking himself "Who am I?" Was he Esgal, the Hidden Guardian? Was he the former apprentice of the Touch of Death, a ruthless assassin? Was he Legolas, or whoever Legolas had been before Dol Guldur? Who was he? What was he?Legolas did not know what to do with himself. A part of him wanted to go to Mirkwood and stay there. Another part of him wanted to seek out answers about his past. A third wanted to just run away, and leave everything for a while. Another wished to finally find out why he felt so connected to Thranduil and a few members of the Royal Family. All his thoughts, emotions, and insecurities had caught up with him, and he was not handling it well. That was why he spoke honestly to Bilbo."I am tired, mellon-nin." the elf said softly. "There is so much I wish to do or seek out, and I cannot. There is so much that I have been ignoring for years, and now it has all decided to converge upon me all at once.""That's what happens when someone ignores something for a long period of time." Bilbo murmured. "It sneaks up on you and grabs you, refusing to let go until you face it. Then more and more things grab on and hold, until you find yourself suffocating under the weight of it all." He leaned forward, normally cheerful face grim and intent. "You need to tell me everything that is bothering you, Esgal. I'm serious. You can't hold it all in anymore. What is it that is so deep within you that you do not wish to tell anyone?" He looked right into the elf's tired violet eyes. "What is bothering you the most? A secret shared is a burden halved."Legolas did not respond for a moment, eyes closed. Many secrets and contained emotions whirled around his mind like a hurricane. Finally, a deep secret, fear, and burden rose to the forefront of his mind."I don't trust anyone completely." he began without preamble in a sad, pained voice. "I try so hard to, but I cannot. The only person I ever fully trusted was Ciaran. I grew up in a Dark place, surrounded by monsters and creatures that wished me nothing but pain, misery, and death. It was difficult enough for me to remain Light and myself there. How was I supposed to learn how to love and trust? It was Ciaran and I versus the world. There were no friends around us, only enemies.""And then we escaped, and my father died. I was suddenly shoved into a place where everything is a range of grays. The only thing that was black and white was that orcs were still evil. I did not know what to do with myself, honestly. So I decided to keep my greatest secrets close to my heart, revealing them to no one. Then I would remain safe, because not all of me would be revealed to others." His voice grew increasingly bitter. "If they betrayed me, there would still be something left that no one could know or touch. And as long as I had that one piece of me— that one secret— that remained hidden, I would never be exposed. I would be safe.""But then the secrets and worries that came with them piled up, and the secret I chose to protect myself with became weighed down by other things. I forgot or denied parts of myself. I can be kind and peaceful, but I can be the most ruthless, deadly foe you will ever face. I knew that the assassin part of me would scare some so I tried to contain it. But with Riagán and his Rangers, that part of me came out. The full emotionless-assassin part of me broke free, and I slayed all of those men. Not only did Aragorn realize what I was capable of, but I remembered what I could do. That is one of the things I refused to acknowledge about myself.""So I can't help but think, what else is there? Who am I really? What am I?" He turned to the hobbit, violet eyes literally a dark. "It is like a piece of me is missing, and I just noticed it was gone."Bilbo was silent for a moment, eyes distant as he thought. "I know that you are a warrior and an assassin. I know that you were raised and trained by Ciaran. You were imprisoned for eighty years and escaped, then decided to kill orcs and fight against the Darkness. You can kill a man in a hundred different ways, and you know how to bind the broken wing of a baby bird. You are emotional and emotionless, warm and cold. You are also currently confused, and unable to connect these two sides of yourself. That "piece" that is missing is most likely you lost memories. You cannot recall or acknowledge them, but there is something you can do that may lessen your burden and maybe help you find a bit of balance. What is your shield, Esgal? What is it that you have nearly forgotten, and is the secret you keep so deeply within you that it hurts?"The question was not demanding. It was said gently, in a tone that told the assassin that he could decide not to answer if he did not wish to. Legolas's hands clenched in his lap, the burden he had not acknowledged laying heavily on his heart and mind. Bilbo waited patiently for him to speak, eyes never drifting from the elf's face. Could telling such a seemingly-simple secret to the hobbit truly help?Yet when the assassin searched within himself for the greatest of his burdens, the only thing that came up was the secret he had never told anyone, the thing that seemed to scream that it finally wanted to be known...The assassin took a deep breath, meeting the hobbit's eyes."The thing I have never told anyone... is that my birth name is Legolas."The name was odd on his tongue, having never been spoken aloud in hundreds of years. It seemed distant and strange, almost as if the words were not his and he had little to do with them. Yet, immediately, the elf felt a little better, simply because someone knew. Someone knew the secret he had shared with no one.Bilbo's eyes flicked wide, before an encouraging expression appeared on his face. "Why did you keep it a secret?" he asked. "I know that it is more than just because it is a name.""At first, I told no one my name because I feared that those who imprisoned me would be able to find me if I used it. I also feared that using that name would allow me to be pinned, or might lead me to my past. I had just lost Ciaran and had been shoved into a new world. I was not ready to find my past. By the time I was, it was too late. Names label you, and let you be known to the world. They identify you in a way that no other things could. After all, the name "Bilbo Baggins" had become well known in Hobbiton." Legolas looked down at his hands, not really seeing them. "I did not want identification, and I wished to remain anonymous. So my name became my greatest secret, because if no one knew my name then no one could use it to hurt me. As time went on, hiding my name became habit, and I became Esgal.""'Legolas' does not feel like my name." he admitted. "I am so used to being called 'Esgal' that my birth name... It's almost like a distant title to me. I know that I have it and I know it is important but it does not truly feel like it is me. Legolas was who I was before I was captured, and during my training. Now... I am Esgal. Whoever I was before... it is like he is gone.""He is not gone." Bilbo said firmly. "He is merely lost along with your memories. One day, you will find both him and your memories. Perhaps that is why you feel so conflicted and incomplete. You are missing a piece of yourself. You are missing Legolas." There was a pause as the hobbit pondered his next words. "Thank you for telling me this, but I'll keep calling you Esgal if you don't mind."Legolas shrugged. "Like I said, I do not feel like I am Legolas. Maybe once I regain the memories of my past I will call myself Legolas once again, but for now I am Esgal, and that is who I will remain for a while yet."The verbalization of his innermost secret and thoughts brought a small sense of calm to the assassin. He had acknowledged what was wrong, and shared his burden. Already he felt slightly better, though his inner conflict, loss, and confusion still hovered in the back of his mind. But it was now mostly under control, a small bruise instead of an wound that refused to close. He knew that his worries would remain, but he also knew he could handle it... and should not let it fester again for so long.The sound of a door opening signaled Frodo's return to Bag End at last. The young hobbit gave his customary call of "Bilbo! I'm home!" before wandering into the sitting room. Frodo froze as his eyes caught sight of the elf, and a large grin crossed his face."You're here!" Frodo rushed forward, smiling happily up at Legolas. "I knew that you usually came here around this time of year so I decided to see if I could meet you on the way here.""I'm sorry that we missed each other," the elf said seriously. "If I had sensed you on the way here I would have come here with you.""It's all right." Frodo said dismissively. "I'm just glad you're here now. Could we continue my sword lessons?"Bilbo knew that even the most peaceful place could become drawn into the war with the Shadow, so he had long ago decided to let Legolas teach his charge how to fight. Frodo had taken to the lessons well, able to spar quite well for a hobbit. He had even been allowed to use Sting the last few times the assassin had come. Legolas spent much of the time he was with the hobbits teaching the young one how to fight, carefully correcting his swings and stances. When the elf left, Frodo still practiced, with Bilbo supervising and making sure he was learning everything correctly.Although Frodo had never been tested in battle before— something both Bilbo and Legolas were happy about— word of his sword-lessons had leaked out when a hobbit had caught Bilbo and Frodo practicing in the field. A few bounders had come and openly observed one such lesson more than once, and they were impressed with what "Mad Baggins" had managed to teach his cousin. They were, of course, unaware of the elf that had assisted in Frodo's training. Some bounders had offered Frodo a spot in the Watch when he was older, encouraging him to continue his lessons.Frodo did so, not only because of his Took hope for adventure, but because he enjoyed the lessons and was determined to be able to defend himself and his home if he needed to. It was the general opinion of Legolas, Bilbo, Frodo, and many others in the darkening world that it was better to be able to defend yourself and not need to, then have the need and not be able to."Of course we can." Legolas said. "Go grab Sting and meet me in the usual spot."He left, and Bilbo walked to the door, looking left and right for the elf. He was nowhere in sight. The old hobbit sighed and shook his head, laughing softly. "How does he do it?" he murmured, then turned to his cousin. "You know the rules. Be careful, stay with Esgal, and don't let anyone touch or hold Sting. The last thing I need is for Peregrin Took to stab himself in the foot."Frodo looked past the crotchety old hobbit act and laughed. "I will, Bilbo."He walked away, waving to Bilbo before hurrying off to find their elusive elf friend. The last person in Bag End shook his head once more. "If only I had such energy nowadays..."He returned to the fire, taking the tea kettle off of it and pouring some teas into a mug. He set the cup down beside him, pulled out a book, and read in the peace and quiet of his home. His peace did not last long, however, for a nagging urge to reach into his pocket prodded at his mind. Bilbo closed his eyes, sighing deeply, and gave in, taking out the golden ring and turning it over in his fingers.As the years went by, his awareness of his magic ring had increased. He always knew it was there, in his pocket, and would have the unexplainable urge to put it on whenever he was alone. Bilbo knew magic was dangerous and that his attachment to the ring was not a good thing, but surely it was only a magic trinket?Bilbo's thoughts were interrupted by insistent knocking on his door. The hobbit glanced at the clock and realized that hours had passed. It was almost time for supper. He must have drifted off sometime. He could not have possibly been staring at his ring for two hours. He stood, setting his book beside the cooled cup of tea and placing his ring in his pocket. More banging was heard as he hurried towards the door."I'm coming! I'm coming!" the hobbit said irritably. "Sackville-Baggins, I swear if that's you—"Bilbo opened the door, to find three black-cloaked figures on his doorstep.LOTRLOTRLOTRLegolas watched approvingly as Frodo went through a series of mock-blows and strikes. The hobbit had a determined look on his face as he went through the stances, as intent as if he were facing a real foe. The assassin spoke to his friend in precise, blunt statements, knowing the hobbit could handle and appreciate his corrections."Turn your left foot out to balance yourself. Double-grip on the sword. Don't stand there like a rock! Move around, use your speed and agility. You are small but you are not as strong as a dwarf. They can block blows easily, you cannot."Frodo made the changes Legolas barked at him, attacking the training dummy they had set up with vigor. Sting flashed and stabbed in, moving with impressive speed for a hobbit. But right now Frodo was not a peaceful, food-loving hobbit. He was a young warrior in training, determined to succeed and learn what was necessary to reach his goal and protect those he loved if the need arose. It was from the latter mindset that the strongest warriors arose. Fighting to kill may lend strength, but fighting to protect was an even greater thing.The blue-eyed hobbit halted at last, breathing heavily as he turned to look at Legolas."Well done." the assassin said with a genuine smile. "You are quite formidable, Frodo, and would be one I would wish to fight alongside in battle."His young friend blushed and smiled at the praise, sheathing Sting carefully. "Thank you, Esgal. Honestly, I hope I never actually have to fight."Legolas's smile faded as he grew solemn. "I hope you will never have to as well. I hope that you will be able to continue to live in peace..." But I have found that the greater powers are not that kind. Peace cannot last forever, and soon all things may be touched by Darkness and war.These foreboding thoughts had been growing in the elf's mind for some time, as Mirkwood grew darker along with the rest of the world. Galadriel had been right: the Darkness was coming. The only question now was it would come, and how terrible it would be once it did. Under Frodo's worried scrutiny, the assassin pushed his thoughts away."I believe that we should return to town," he said lightly, teasingly. "Bilbo will fret and worry if you miss su—"The violet-eyed elf stopped speaking, his every muscle and limb going rigid. His head snapped to the side, staring into the distance in the direction of Hobbiton. Beside him Frodo tensed as, following his friend's gaze but unable to see what he saw. Not what he saw, per say, but what he had sensed.Three large, dark presences had come into his range. They were so deep in evil and Shadow, so greatly a part of both, that they were like splashes of black ink on the whitest of parchment, or crimson blood dropped into snow. The presences were familiar, horribly so, and Legolas knew that there was no mistaking what had come to the town.He could never mistake the presences he sensed. He had lived with them for eighty years, after all."Nazgûl." the assassin snarled, violet eyes blazing with hate.Frodo stared at him with wide eyes, frozen in the spot with fear. Then he jerked, a flinch of his body, and he too looked in the direction of his home. Only one thing within it was on his mind, however."Bilbo!"Without another word the hobbit took off, racing back towards Hobbiton. Legolas stood stock-still for a moment longer before he sped after his young friend, at first slowed by shock, alarm, and fear. The Ringwraiths were here. The ones that had captured him, had imprisoned him, and who he hated with a passion were here.He hated them for taking him from his birth family. He hated them for trying to control him. He hated them for taking away his memories, even if they did not truly realize that they had. He hated them for killing so many and for following the Darkness. He hated them for existing.Even with all that hatred, Legolas had never gone after the Nazgûl. But now he was wishing he had. Icy rage wanted to overcome the assassin's senses but he did not let it. He could not let it. He wanted to race into Hobbiton and slaughter the Nazgûl he encountered, to make them pay for all that they had done, but he could not.Because even after all of his years in the Ringwraith's presence, learning what he could, Legolas was not sure how and if he could kill one of them. If any old weapon was capable of killing one of the Nine, surely someone would have succeeded by now. For all he knew, they could be immune to everything, unable to truly be "killed" thanks to their masters' Dark Sorcery. The Ringwraiths had not exactly been forthcoming about how to assassinate them. Legolas knew that elvish blades could wound a Nazgûl, and knew that the elements could temporarily stop one, but kill one? Most likely not. Still... it would be worth a try.Legolas took his bow from his shoulder, notching an arrow to the string. Frodo was far ahead of him, fear lending speed to his feet and panic sending adrenaline rushing through his veins. The elf could see Hobbiton in the distance, and his steps faltered at what came into view.The town was burning. Trees, fields, hills, and homes were all ablaze, flames and smoke devouring the once-peaceful place. Legolas coughed, the tainted air burning his throat and his eyes shimmered and ached with burning tears. He lifted his face-mask, covering his mouth and nose, and squinted through the smoke and ash.Hobbits were running about, most screaming in fear while others tried to put out the flames. Most fled, stumbling over each other in their haste, running away from the large black shapes that the elf could see in the distance. Two Nazgûl sat atop their dragon-like mounts in Hobbiton, a third on the ground near his mount, and Legolas was swift to recognize the Witch-King, his lieutenant, and another Black Rider.His sharp eyes focused on the Nazgûl Lord— the one he despised the most for what he had planned to do to him— and spotted something in the Nazgûl Lord's arms. The assassin's heart skipped a beat. Bilbo was limp and unmoving his enemy's hold, pale as death. The elf's grip tightened on his bow but he hesitated. He could shoot the Witch-King, but if he did would it matter? Would the Nazgûl be wounded, or would he be unaffected enough to hurt or kill Bilbo in retaliation—The roar of renewed fire drew his attention, the chaos making him unable to worry about one thing for long. As he watched in mute horror, the lowest-ranked Nazgûl lit a building with a torch, careful to keep his robes away from the fire. Beside the Ringwraith, his mount screeched, flattening multiple houses and sending many hobbits to the ground, screaming in pain.The Black Rider held a torch with odd, sickly-green flames in one hand, lighting things on fire without fear of being burnt or harmed by his weapon. Legolas recognized the flames as the Dark fire that lit the halls of Minas Morgul. The fire was cursed, and would keep burning as long as the Nazgûl held it, its flames turning orange but more wild than normal fire when it lit other things alight. How the Ringwraith had brought it with him and why he was using it to burn down the town, the elf did not know. Nor did he care. He had to try.Without wasting another thought he drew back and fired, arrow flying straight and true. It hit the arsonist Nazgûl where his heart had once resided. For a moment nothing happened, and Legolas's stomach dropped.It didn't work.Then, so suddenly almost all witnessed it flinched, the Ringwraith crumbled, imploding into dust along with the arrow that had slain it. The torch fell from his hand, its Dark fire vanishing like a candle hit by a breath of wind as its energy source was cut off, and the fires devouring the town seemed to lose some of their strength. The Nazgûl died without dramatics or sound, his end so abrupt that for a moment Legolas did not realize what had happened.I just killed a Nazgûl.The Witch-King's enraged shriek was heard over the continuous screams and cries of the hobbits, and for a heart-stopping moment Legoals thought he was going to set his monster on the people fully. To his surprise and horror, the fell beast spread its wings, obviously preparing to take off.It did not make sense that the Nazgûl was not going to retaliate— in fact, he seemed to be ignoring the easily-able-to-be-killed hobbits around him. Instead it was as if he had only remained to indulge his now-deceased comrade. But his reasoning did not matter. All that did was that the Witch-King was escaping. And he was going to take Bilbo with him.Legolas notched another two arrows, sighting along the shafts. Clear gazes cutting through fire and smoke, violet eyes met cruel fire, and the Witch-King hoisted his hostage up, covering his torso with the unconscious hobbit. A silent threat was issued: Try to shoot me, and you'll end up hitting him.The assassin gritted his teeth, keeping the string taut even as his hands shook, with rage or fear he did not know. For once, his enemy had the advantage, and the Delorcion knew it. If only he could get the Ringwraith to drop his friend!Like an answer to his prayers, Frodo appeared out of nowhere, stabbing the fell beast in the foot. The creature howled and bucked, Bilbo falling out of the Witch-King's grasp. Moving with surprising speed, Frodo clumsily caught his guardian and began to drag him away. He did not make it far.The fell beast turned, pursuing the stumbling hobbit. A large foot slamming down next to Frodo sent him falling to the ground. The dragon-like creature loomed over the hobbits, teeth bared, with the Witch-King glaring triumphantly down at the two from his mount's back, his attention drawn away from the assassin. Too bad for him. Breaking out of his shock, Legolas drew his bowstring back, hands still shaking, and released two arrows.One struck the Nazgûl Lord's mount, the other hit the Ringwraith in the chest, missing his heart by an inch. The fell beast collapsed noiselessly, dead before it hit the ground but the Witch-King was not so easily killed. He gave a screech of pain so sharp that all around him staggered, crying out. Legolas flinched, dropped his bow, and clapped his hands over his sensitive ears as the distorted, painful shriek assaulted his hearing.When he pulled his hands away they were bloody, and his vision swam as nausea overcame him. Legolas grunted softly, struggling to focus as pain ripped through his head and his ears rang with a high-pitched whine.The Witch-King not-quite fell off of his beast, keeping his footing and leaping up onto the mount of his dead fellow. The arrow in his chest disintegrated, turning into dust and ash. The remaining fell beasts gave final, painful screeches and took to the air, becoming nothing more than dark spots in the distance.There was a moment of stunned silence, all having stopped to stare at the confrontation, before chaos erupted once more. The hobbits on the ground sobbed or shook, a few rushing about as they gathered water to try to put out the fires. Others gathered around Bilbo and Frodo, their voices muffled but still distinct to Legolas's abused ears."Is he all right?""What's wrong with him?""Is he dead?"Despite his dizziness and disorientation, the assassin ran to his friends at these words. He ignored the gasps and startled exclamations as the hobbits spotted the elf at last. Legolas crouched down next to Frodo, who was cradling a pale, motionless Bilbo in his arms. Tearful blue eyes looked up at Legolas, filled with despair and pleading."He won't wake up."Legolas did not respond, placing a had on his old friend's forehead. Bilbo's skin was pale and icy cold. His life-energy was only a weak, flickering light within him, growing dimmer by the second. The elf bit his lip, eyes meeting Frodo's once more."I believe he has been cursed with the Black Breath. He needs Elvish healing." It took all of his will not to let his voice shake. Bilbo was dying.The young hobbit's expressive eyes held desperation. "Please, can you help him?"Legolas swallowed dryly, looking down at Bilbo— his friend— with fear and apprehension. He knew elvish "spells" for healing, but had never performed one before. Not only that, but this ailment was the Black Breath, one of the Darkest sicknesses in their world. Even Lord Elrond lost people to it some times, so what chance did he have to save Bilbo?I have to try, the assassin thought, heart pounding loudly in his chest.His right hand remained on Bilbo's forehead, his shaking left one laying on the hobbit's barely moving chest. If he succeeded— even a little bit— Bilbo may survive. But if he was not strong enough, if he could not heal his friend even the smallest amount, then the hobbit would die.I can do this, Legolas told himself. I can do this.His eyes remained open but glazed, as if he were asleep, his awareness of the physical world faded, and he spread his sixth sense, focusing on his friend. He could see the Darkness within Bilbo, a Shadow taking hold of the lively hobbit's soul. His pure hobbit soul was no longer that, darkened and weakening as the Shadow feed off of it like a parasite.Bilbo's mind was trapped in visions of Darkness, terror and agony racing through his thoughts as nightmares plagued him, drowning him. Legolas breathed in sharply, distancing himself the slightest bit in order to not be caught up in the deadly storm. He reached out with his own energy, trying to connect with Bilbo, calling to him in an attempt to bring him back."Bilbo, lasto beth nin, tolo dan nan galad!"Bilbo's presence did not react, unable to hear his calls amidst the agony surrounding him. The Darkness heard however, and, angry, lashed out, beating at him with a savageness that took him by surprise. Legolas weathered its attacks, refusing to be pushed back, blackness and evil swirling around his consciousness but unable to move or shake him. Seeing this, the Darkness ignored him, instead converging around Bilbo's light and tightening its grip, suffocating him. The hobbit's life-energy flickered dangerously and fear wormed its way into Legolas's heart. His friend was fading fast.No!He flung himself into the spell, not noticing as his breathing slowed, his face twisted into an expression of pain, and his skin grew cold to the touch. He was pushing much of himself into his friend, his own energy flowing into Bilbo in an attempt to heal him. He could not— would not— lose Bilbo to the Darkness. He could not fail.Yet Bilbo's life was slipping away like water through his fingers, Legolas unable to stop it as the Darkness slowly strangled his friend's spirit. He did not notice as tears began to trickle down his cheeks, caught in a struggle he was swiftly losing.Legolas wanted to cry and scream in grief and rage as the Darkness mocked him, tearing his friend apart and choking him with Shadows. He was an assassin and a warrior, not a healer. He could not win this fight. Bilbo was lost, doomed to his Dark fate, and he was helpless to stop it.Just like he had been helpless when Ciaran died in his arms."No..." Legolas rasped, unknowingly speaking aloud. His still-open eyes narrowed but the grimace faded from his face, replaced by a teeth-grinding, determined look. "...You won't take him."Legolas forgot all of his worries and fears. He disregarded all of the doubts and mistrust in his soul. All that mattered was saving Bilbo, nothing else. He would not lose his friend to Darkness. He would not let Bilbo die. The Shadow would not win while he had the power to stop it!For a single second, Legolas let his deepest self free. His deeply-guarded Light of him, freed for the tiniest span of a moment. Pure and untouched by Darkness for hundreds of years, it flowed into Bilbo like a sun chasing away shadows. It blazed through the Black Breath's curse, flowing into Bilbo and touching his spirit. Legolas did not hold back, pouring himself into the healing, caring not for anything else in the world except saving his dear friend.His inner glow flared to life, skin blazing like a star, and the hobbits around him gasped in shock and awe in the single, monumental second he was free. Frodo, the closest hobbit, was the only one to see through the light, to see his friend's face. An expression of absolute peace lay on Esgal's features, and for that moment the hobbit swore that the elf's eyes were silver-blue...Then it was over.The light vanished, leaving a terrible sense of loss to all present, the village falling into a darkness that seemed more ominous then before. Legolas gave a small, pained gasp, eyes fluttering closed. He slumped forward, catching himself clumsily before he could collapse to the ground. He opened violet eyes and breathed heavily, head lifting so that Bilbo was in his sights.The hobbit's skin was still pale and he remained unmoving. A touch revealed his skin was still icy cold. Frodo felt tears falling down his face, dripping off of his chin, but he did not break down like he wanted to. With a trembling hand he reached out, placing a hand on Esgal's shoulder."You tried your best." he whispered, voice cracking.The elf did not respond, staring at Bilbo with blank, wide eyes. Frodo presumed he must be in denial, or shock, but was unable to give any more comfort when he needed some himself...A spasm of movement. A gasping breath.A few hobbits screamed and leapt back as Bilbo jerked back into the land of the living, heaving and coughing weakly like a drowned man desperate for air. The hobbits began babbling and panicking again but Legolas and Frodo ignored them, the latter lunging forward to pull his cousin into a fierce hug."You're alive! You're all right!" the normally quiet hobbit shouted exuberantly, crying, laughing, and sobbing all at once.Bilbo merely smiled at him, a tiredness in his eyes that had not existed before. His drifting gaze met Legolas's and the hobbit's weak grin became more genuine. "...Thank you." he rasped, exhaustion in every word. "I felt what you did...""How are you feeling?" the elf asked worriedly."Fine... Just fine." Bilbo gave a small, mirthless laugh, balancing between joy and hysteria. "I'm alive. Somehow, I'm alive. After that black-cloaked monster attacked me—" The hobbit went still, eyes widening with horror as memory rushed back to him. "Valar, no!"He staggered to his feet, stumbling in a seemingly random direction. By now most of the hobbits were ignoring the three, running about as they tried to bring order to their town. Bilbo ignored them as well, running into multiple people as he attempted to run through the town. Legolas stopped him before he could get far— or hurt himself— concern darkening his violet eyes."Bilbo, what—""Let me go!" the hobbit snapped in a sharp, panicked voice. "I have to go after them!"Legolas and Frodo exchanged confused glances. Bilbo had nearly died and was obviously terrified of the Nazgûl, but he wanted to pursue them?"They are long gone, Bilbo." the elf informed his friend gravely.The hobbit stilled and went limp in his arms, broken sobs shaking his frame. "No no no no no! It's gone! They took it! They took the Ring!"Legolas froze. "'The ring'? What ring?"Guilt, anguish, pain, sorrow, and misery crossed his friend's features. He looked down, unable to meet anyone's eyes."Bilbo." the elf's voice was firm and unyielding, knowing his friend was upset but needing to know. "What ring?"At first he did not speak, unwilling to voice the truth. Anguish, despair, fear, pain, and terror warred for dominance on the hobbit's no-longer-innocent features as he looked up at the assassin."...The Ring." Bilbo whispered. Hollow. Grieving. Broken. "The One Ring. The Ring of Power the Darkness needs to destroy the world. I had it all this time... and now they have taken it from me."LOTRLOTRLOTRTranslations:"Bilbo, lasto beth nin, tolo dan nan galad!": "Bilbo, hear my voice, come back to the light!"A/N: KINDA IMPORTANT NOTE: It is sort of my head-canon that it takes an immediate killing strike in order to kill a Nazgûl. That means a blow to the heart, a blow to the head, beheading, etc. If you miss by the tiniest bit, the Ringwraith won't die. There are only three exceptions to this in this story. (That's all I'm saying now)Next chapter is "The Present", in the year 3011....I can't wait. :DThank you for all of the awesome reviews! Responses to Guest reviews:To "emi": Thank you! To "Anony-Mouse": Thanks! I have actually been using Legolas's eyes as a sort of medium to show the different sides of him. They are silver-blue when he lets out his inner glow and is at his most "content and peaceful, true to himself, letting the elf he once was free". They are violet the rest of the time, but turn a dark violet when he is in his deepest "assassin-mode". Like he did last chapter, when he is in this "mode" he is full-assassin. Cold, ruthless, apathetic, emotionless. The only reason I haven't mentioned his eyes changing like that is because when he was like this before, the POV was his, so it was not like he could see himself. You're going to see him like that again.To "FalenOfTheForest": Thanks!To "Kryst": Thank you!To "guest 2000": Thank you! :DTo "Devil Red": Thanks! No matter how many years pass and no matter how hard he tries, Legolas still grieves and regrets having to kill men. I personally think that's a good thing though.To "Michelle": Thank you! And thanks for finally reviewing! I love it when new people review. :) To "OlympicEventer": Thank you! Here's the update.To "KP": Thanks!To "Guest": Thanks for reviewing!Please review!


********** Page 23 **********

A/N: Life was being mean again. (groans). Why must it make me so busy and be so rude...? :(PLEASE NOTE!: This is where the Alternate Universe (and my main plotlines) really start. You'll see what I mean by the end of the chapter. THIS IS AU!LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Twenty-Two: "He Has Come."Third Age 3011 (Today/The Present.)They were still alive.No one knew how, not even the elves, but they were still alive. They were still free. Sauron had not yet risen. Twenty years after the Witch-King took the One Ring, the Dark Lord had not yet returned. And no one could figure out how or why.The Witch-King's will was enslaved by Sauron. The moment he got the Ring, Sauron would have sensed it, and demanded his Nazgûl Lord give it to him as quickly as possible. Flames would leap up from Barad Dur, Sauron would rise in all his evil glory, and a Second Darkness would cover Middle-earth, its' people doomed to slavery and death at the Shadows' hands.And yet, nothing had happened.Mordor was silent. The remaining eight Nazgûl had not been seen in twenty years. The orcs and other servants of the Darkness kept attacking, but they were no more terrible or powerful than they had been before. A bitter period of preparing, alliance making, and terrified waiting rippled through the People of Middle-earth. The elves, dwarves, men, and even hobbits united and held their breath, waiting for the inevitable.Nothing. Happened.And that was more terrifying than all of the Dark Lords in Arda.As the years of nothingness passed, some of the alliances lost their strength, wariness between races rising once more. Most prominently, Denethor practically broke off his treaty with the elves, claiming Gondor did not need the help of the immortals. He only sent his son, Boromir, to the bi-yearly meetings of the Free People as a formality.In reality, there was barely any trust left in many of the men of Gondor for the elves. Mostly, it was Faramir, the Steward's younger son that insisted that Boromir continue to attend the meetings in case something new occurred. And the older son of Denethor listened to his brother, so hope for Gondor remained.Surprisingly, the alliance between the elves of Mirkwood and the dwarves of Erebor remained one of the strongest in Middle-earth. More secluded than Lothlorien and Rivendell, Mirkwood instead turned to its neighbors of Dale and Erebor, making potential battle plans and keeping in contact with each other. The men of Dale also took part in said meetings, though to a lesser degree than the other two races.Much had changed in the past twenty years. Along with the gut-wrenching foreboding and fear that plagued all, the Darkness had already struck the world in a way that could not be reversed. The Shire was uninhabitable, the Dark Fire that the Nazgûl had used to burn parts of it resulting in a horrifying transformation in the once-beautiful land. The ground no longer could be used to grow crops, the green fields would not grow back, no sun shone down through the dark, looming clouds, and the trees were almost as Shadowed as the ones within Mirkwood.The Nazgûl had not lingered after gaining the Ring just to inspire fear, but to punish those that had hidden it from them for so long. The cursed Dark Fire had done its job. It had held a piece of the Darkness of Minas Morgul, an evil so potent that it had poisoned the land. The Shire was now unrecognizable and its hobbit natives would have been homeless if not for Bilbo.The fall of the Shire had been unexpected and shocking, but the other races had stepped up and offered new homes to the refugee hobbits. Bilbo's connections and friendships with Rivendell, Dale, and Erebor allowed his people to migrate to and live with the elves, dwarves, or men of those realms. Most from Hobbiton and the Shire chose to go to the mortal realms— too in awe of the elves to be able to live with them— but some stayed closer to home and went to the Hidden Valley.Some of these hobbits— including Frodo— continually traveled between the elven realm and the Shire, hoping to find some change in their home. Every month there was none, the ground remaining black and bleak, unable to support life. So the hobbits remained where they were, sometimes in little towns of their own if they had settled in Dale or Erebor. Yet all of them yearned for the open green fields, clear rivers, and long-missed hobbit-holes they had lost.It was the loss of the Shire and the continued absence of Sauron and the Ring that caused the Free People to hold meetings in Rivendell every year. Their purpose was for the leaders to check with each other, and make sure that the Darkness was not creeping up to surround them. They tried to figure out the Enemy's movements, agonized over trying to discover what had happened to the Ring, and frankly wondered why they were not in the war for Middle-earth yet.Important leaders were present at this year's meeting, from the races of elves, men, hobbits, Wizards, and even an Eagle. The participants were Gandalf, Elrond, Aragorn, King Theoden of Rohan, Theodred, Eomer, Boromir of Gondor, Erestor, Glorfindel, Bilbo Baggins, and Gwaihir the Wind Lord.Lothlorien was absent from this council by request of the Lady of the Light herself. She did not speak of her reasons for not attending, only hinting that her instincts were telling her to remain in her realm this time.Mirkwood rarely attended the meetings, unwilling to leave their home with the Shadow so ready to strike. The same was said of the dwarves of Erebor. The elves and dwarves of those realms— who for so long had disagreed with each other— now had the same mentality and thoughts. They refused to let their guard down and were waiting for the war they knew would one day come.The council was already commencing, the topics that had been discussed and discarded before reopened with new ideas and insight, in a hope to reveal the Enemy's plans."Perhaps the Witch-King wants to keep the Ring for himself?" Erestor ventured. "His lust for the Ring might be stronger than we originally thought.""It has been twenty years. If that were true, he would not be able to resist Sauron this long." Gandalf murmured. "None in this world are powerful enough to break the Dark Lord's hold over his servant, and the Ring would not condone being held by one such as the Witch-King, especially not when it could easily be given to its Master.""Have there been any signs that Sauron himself is gaining physical form?" Theoden asked Boromir, whose home was closest to Mordor.The Captain of Gondor shook his head, running a hand over his tired face. "No. Mordor is as silent as ever. Our spies report that there had been no activity in Minas Morgul since the Witch-King took the Ring inside.""Sauron has not been resurrected, and has not gained a physical body of any kind." Elrond stated ominously. "I sense that something has kept him from regaining a powerful form after the White Council defeated him at Dol Guldur.""If that is the case, then perhaps the Witch-King must be preparing a Dark spell of some sort to bring him back," Gandalf mused. "Odd. I did not think that we would be able to wound Sauron so greatly. But his threat remains as long as the Ring exists.""Should we try to retrieve it?" Aragorn asked, leaning forward in his seat.Boromir spared the Ranger a glance, wondering for the thousandth time who the man was and why he was at these meetings. He had heard that the man was the adopted son of Elrond, but that did not make him important enough to attend these councils. Not even Elrond's birth children were here. The Captain could not find an answer to his question. Everyone he asked did not know, and he did not dare to ask the elves."Minas Morgul is too greatly protected for us to even attempt getting inside." Gwaihir warned. "Force will not break it and stealth is useless. The Darkness in Minas Morgul has grown too strong. Any who went within the city would die."The Ranger hesitated a moment before speaking softly. "We all know that Esgal could—""Are you sure that he would survive?" Elrond asked quietly. "I know how greatly he can shield himself, but is he strong enough to shield himself from Darkness that powerful? That Darkness was used to power the Dark Fire that destroyed the Shire. Do you think that an elf— even one like Esgal— would be able to survive setting foot in a place that is the source of that evil? It is better that we have an ally that lives than one that dies needlessly."Aragorn kept his silence, while the other humans at the council wondered who this "Esgal" person was."We are certain that the Ring that was taken was the One Ring?" Theoden asked suddenly. "Perhaps it was another Ring of Power?"Gandalf glanced at Bilbo, who was looking down at his hands guiltily. Most of the time the hobbit was his cheerful, adventurous self but he was prone to occasional glum silences, his guilt so great it could almost be touched. In his darkest times Bilbo blamed himself for losing the Ring.He should not have used it. He should not have taken it from Gollum's cave. He should have learned more about his "magic trinket". He should have shown it to Gandalf. The many things he had done and the many other things he should have but did not do haunted the hobbit. The Wizard knew it would only become worse if Sauron was resurrected and people died."It was the One." the Istar said heavily, sad eyes not leaving the unusually silent Bilbo.No one disputed his claim.The meeting went on, frustrations running high within many of the participants, but they came to the inevitable conclusion that there was nothing they could do but wait. They could not make plans for a counterattack or a solid defense when they had no idea what the Enemy was doing.The men from Rohan, Gandalf, and Gwaihir left later that day, each hurrying off to their own destination. Theoden, Theodred, and Eomer returned to Rohan. Gandalf went east to Eriador, intenton reaching the Shire and hoping that maybe the new spell he had found would help cleanse the land. Gwaihir returned to his people, flying off with large, majestic beats.Down below, Elrond watched him go, eyes distant and not really seeing what was in front of him. He did not realize that he was being spoken to until a tug on his sleeve startled him. He flinched and turned, relaxing when he spotted Erestor. The scholar looked at his friend with concerned eyes."Are you all right, mellon-nin?""I'm fine." Elrond said. "I was just... thinking.""About what?" Erestor prompted.The Elf Lord opened his mouth, trying to find the words to describe his thoughts. "...Everything. The Ring, the Darkness, Sauron, the Nazgûl, the Shire..." He sighed, forehead crinkling and eyes tight with stress. "I know that I will regret saying this, but I just want something to happen. Right now, we can do nothing more than wait with bated breath and hope that Sauron does not rise in Mordor and enslave us all. But..." He stopped, unsure as to whether he should share his thoughts with his friend.The the other elf's eyebrow quirked upward in a way that reminded Elrond of himself. "What is it?"The Elf Lord was quiet a moment before he turned to look at him. "Do you remember what I told you of the White Council's battle with the Necromancer?"Erestor nodded gravely."Ever since the Nazgûl gained the Ring, I have been remembering every time I have faced Sauron, and wondering if he would be as powerful when he returned. However, something about the battle at Dol Guldur has been bothering me. We drove the Necromancer out of the Hill of Sorcery... easily."His friend absorbed this before speaking cautiously. "...Easily?""Yes." Elrond said softly, almost to himself. "Easily is the correct word to describe the battle, now that I think about it. We drove Sauron out with no damage on our side, and none of the Nazgûl were present to defend their master. Perhaps the Necromancer was weaker than we believed, or he did not care about keeping the Hill of Sorcery... but I am beginning to think that that is not the truth."The Elf Lord turned away from the view of the now-empty sky, walking back towards his study. He paused, and glanced at Erestor out of the corner of his eye, genuine confusion and fear darkening his silver orbs. "It was like Sauron had lost most of his power. Like the Darkness and Nazgûl had betrayed Sauron, and were no longer helping him in any way. It was almost as if they had found a new Master."LOTRLOTRLOTR"It is done." the Witch-King hissed.He stood in the highest tower of Minas Morgul, the task he had been completing for the past twenty years finally finished. Carved into the ground before him was a large, complex array. It was a circle the size of the room, drawn in a red that looked like spilled blood. Within the circle was hexagon, and in that were two intersecting rectangles. The pattern— circle, hexagon, crossed rectangles— repeated itself five more times, and along each symmetrical and carefully-placed line was a series of Dark runes. The entire array glowed eerily, starkly bright against the black floor, Dark Magic pulsing from the runes like the beat of a monster's heart.The Nazgûl's master spoke in his mind, voice echoing and harsh, but with an undertone of excitement. "It is ready? You are certain of this?"Yes, my Lord, the Witch-King informed him, his very thoughts linked to his master. The spell is ready. All is prepared."It had better be," the Darkness warned. "There is only one chance to free me. If a single rune is out of place, the magic will fail, and I will remain trapped." His voice deepened further, becoming a growl that seemed to make the earth tremble. "If you fail me..."The threat did not need to be completed. The Nazgûl Lord repressed a shudder, perfectly aware that his master would make him suffer for eternity if he did not succeed. That was why he had spent the last twenty years carefully following the Darkness's instructions, undoing and redoing each line and rune of the array until it was perfect. Each set of runes were identical, each line the same length, and each angle the right size. The array was a complex one, the Dark Spell it activated even more so, but it would be worth it. The Witch-King would do whatever it took to bring his master into this world. All that was needed was the final piece...The Nazgûl walked over to the edge of the room, to a small chest sitting in the corner. It looked innocent enough, even though its metal was as black as coal. However, there was a spell on the box would kill anyone who touched it except him, a handy little curse that would keep thieves from running off with what was inside. It was unlikely that any enemy would survive the Darkness of Minas Morgul and get to this room, but it was better to be safe than sorry.He laid a gauntlet-clad hand on the top of the chest, letting it recognize his energy and magic. Once the slightly-painful tingling in his extremity subsided and the chest accepted him, he took out a key and put it in the lock, turning it. The lock clicked, the top swinging upward to reveal the contents hidden inside. The One Ring lay on the bottom of the box, glittering a bright gold that shone brightly against the black background.The Witch picked up the seemingly-harmless jewelry, and instantly the Ring whispered in his ear. It promised power, Darkness, evil, and glory, if only he would return it to Sauron... The Nazgûl scoffed and ignored the Ring, his will and thoughts unaffected by its attempts at tempting him. He was no longer Sauron's slave. He had a new, more powerful master now. No magic trinket would trick him into betraying him.His master shared his disgust. "Sauron was a fool to create this Ring. Many call him a Dark Lord and a threat, yet he needs this little piece of jewelry to survive... How pathetic. Even more pathetic is the fact that I need the Ring in order to be freed." Loathing entered the dark voice, making it drip and hiss like liquid poison. "I suppose that Lorien thought it would be amusing to force me to use such a pitiful device as a key in order for me to enter this world..."What are you talking about my Lord? The Witch-King asked, confused.The trapped Darkness sighed, in annoyance and rage, the room seeming to grow darker as Minas Morgul responded to its power source's anger. "The Ring is the only thing within all of Arda that holds all of the requirements needed to free me." he explained with mock-patience. "It holds much of a Dark Lord's power and life energy, is an object of the Darkest magics and purest evils, and was forged within the most Shadowed place in this world... Mount Doom." The impression of a sneer implanted itself in the Nazgûl Lord's mind. "The Valar were very specific when they created the 'door' that would keep me out of Arda. Of course, they only took precautions to keep me out at Lorien's insistence. Half of the Valar don't even believe I exist, and the people of Arda are not even aware of me." It was amusing to the Darkness that the Free People of Middle-earth were so afraid of Sauron returning. They were terrified of a Shadow that was no longer a threat, the Shadows of the world sensing and choosing or being enslaved by a more powerful master: him. Not even the elves could tell that it was not Sauron who was rising. Well, a few could, like that irritating Galadriel— He would make sure to kill her personally.— but because the Valar did not fully believe in him, they did not think to even tell their precious elves and mortals about him. Which meant that they would fall like lambs being slaughtered when he came, unprepared and unable to fight when he was finally free.Lorien was the only one who knew the Darkness might get out of his prison. He was the Valar of Prophecy, and saw all possible futures. Most had likely been outcomes of Sauron and his return, others of the resurrection of Morgoth, but a single instance where a different threat— him— had been enough for the Valar to convince his kin to help fortify his prison. The trapped Darkness both admired and hated Lorien for his foresight, and his role in making it difficult for him to escape.It was only through careful planning and some strokes of luck that the Darkness had been able to retrieve the Ring. If the Darkness of Minas Morgul had not awoken him, if the Witch-King had not touched him with his mind, if his presence in Arda had not grown, then the Ring would have been lost, and his chances of breaking out vanishing with it. But things were not that way, and the Ring was in the hands of his servants. Now, after years of awareness and captivity, it was finally time.Though the Darkness's being burned with excitement, his voice was authoritative and calm when he spoke. "Do it now."Without words or questions the Witch-king stepped onto the array, placing the One Ring gently in the Dark design's center. The Ring's whispers grew louder and more alluring but the Nazgûl could not feel temptation, only annoyance at the obvious desperation in the trinket's voice. His master had ordered him to begin, and begin he would.He began to chant in the harsh, chilling language of Dark Magic, a mix of Black Speech and a corrupted version of Istari spells. In response to his words the array began to glow, its red light dancing on the black walls. The spell was long and complex, another requirement in the Valar's futile attempts to keep his master contained. For six nights and six days he spoke, never faltering or stuttering as the Dark spell permeated the air around him. A single mistake would end it all. There were no second chances in this.The Witch-King's rasping voice was harsh but clear as each line and rune on the array turned a piercing, unnatural green, the sickening light slowly working its way towards the center. The light rippling on the walls changed from red to an eerie yellow-green, a heaviness entering the room as the Darkness of the spell grew heavier.The Ring lay on the ground, voice unheard as it tried to reach the Nazgûl, but the Witch-King was under a new master's orders, and would not be distracted. Finally, the eerie green light surrounded the Ring, each rune and line blazing. The light surrounded it, lifting it into the air so it floated above the ground, at the Ringwraith's eye-level. Fiery eyes stared at the Ring, watching the green light reflect on its gold. The ancient Dark words appeared on the side of the thing that had once promised the return of Sauron. Now, it would bring a new evil into the world. The Witch-King took a breath, triumph rushing through him, and spoke the final word, the only one in Sindarin."Iãgaw."A shudder went through the world, every creature and person in Middle-earth freezing as a feeling of dread covered them all. The green light of the array blazed, shooting upward into the sky, crackling like lightning against the clouds. The array shifted and turned, like a key twisting in a lock, and the array split with an echoing crack. Instead of seeing the floor or the room below, the crack was filled with inky blackness, the blackness of emptiness and an absence of life. The blackness swirled and spun slightly, rippling and shifting like a whirlpool, but nothing was being dragged in.Something was coming out.A giant, dark hand rose out of the portal, landing heavily on the ground and making it shake. Soon, an arm as large as a tree followed, then a head. He gripped the sides of the portal, painstakingly pulling himself out of the rip in the world. The void beneath him attempted to pull him back in, tearing at him and trying to haul him back where he had come but the Darkness would not be imprisoned again. With a final heave he escaped the rip between Arda and his former home, stepping on the ground so hard that the entire building shook. The portal behind him snapped closed, having failed to bring him back, the rift between the worlds sealed and unable to be opened again.Twenty-five feet tall, with arms as thick as oaks, the freed Darkness straightened, looming over the Witch-King. His entire form was darker than the darkest abyss, the light around him seeming to drain away as it was dragged screaming and wailing down into nothingness. Even the shadowy Minas Morgul seemed darker, everything losing what little light there was, but the Witch-King's master was somehow as clearly seen as blackness in the light of day. His head was cowled, hiding his face, but two demonic red eyes glowed out from the void like devouring flames, ready to swallow up and destroy everything around them. His form wavered slightly, as if he were made up completely out of shadows, but was in the vague shape of a giant man.The Darkness looked left then right, taking in the area around him. A shift in the shadows beneath his cowl indicated that he may have been smiling. His head tilted back and he roared at the sky, screaming his wordless rage and triumph.He was free....In Rivendell, Erestor went rigid, eyes widening until the whites showed all the way around his pupils. He turned to Elrond, expression blank, and spoke."It is too late. He has come."Then the elf collapsed....In Lothlorien Galadriel cried out, clutching her head as a thousand visions ripped through her mind.Darkness. Darkness. Blood. Death. Darkness. Shadow. Death. Darkness.A repeating cycle of destruction and evil raced through her mind, no visions of hope or Light coming to her. She sank to her knees, hands over her eyes, as Celeborn tried desperately to find out what was wrong with his wife.Galadriel could not answer, so caught up in her visions was she. She saw the great Darkness rise up, saw Middle-earth fall to a Shadow even stronger than Sauron. She saw realms be conquered and destroyed, one by one. Dwarves fought bravely against beings of darkness and shadow. Men fell and died as orcs invaded Minas Tirith. And both Rivendell and Lothlorien were burned to the ground, the elves fighting, fleeing, screaming, and dying as the Darkness roared in triumph.She saw her family die.…On a road in Bree, Gandalf fell to one knee, unable to breathe. The Darkness, so far away and yet so close, pressed down on him. It— he— laughed in a voice that was a thousand souls screaming in pain. He knew the three Ringbearers could sense him and hear him, as clearly as he could sense them thanks to the Ring that had been used to free him. He laughed at them, seeing them, their Rings, and their realms as clearly as one saw a city in the middle of an open plain.Haldir's words from so long ago echoed in Galadriel's mind, heard by them all."He is awake."Fael's warning whispered through Gandalf's thoughts and was heard by the others, drawn out by the one that had awoken."He is coming."Gandalf had been right. Fael's odd words had been meant to alert them. If only Galadriel had spoken of Haldir's strange lapse in attention. If only Gandalf had revealed his worries about Fael's warning. If only the three Ring bearers had been more in touch with each other. There was too many if-only's, too many regrets. But there was nothing they could do now."He has come."Who was "He"? Not the Witch-King, as they had desperately hoped. Not Sauron, as they had feared. Not even Morgoth, who they dreaded most of all. No, this entity was worse than the Dark Lords. This being was barely known and rarely acknowledged, a thing commonly not thought about and mostly ignored.If he was named, he was said to be a place, an emptiness, a thing without consciousness. He had been a legend, a distant whisper too soft for any to hear or take heed of. After all, he had not been a threat: he had been in a coma-like state since his awakening. At least, that was what all— meaning the Valar who had considered the possibility that he existed— had believed.They should have known better, all of them. They were the ones that powered him after all. They kept him separate from Arda, and imprisoned all Dark things inside him. Evil ideas, powers, thoughts, and beings were all trapped in him, their Darkness seeping into his very core. All of the hatred, anger, and cruelty of his prisoners became him, and he became them. He absorbed them and became sentient, but not yet aware. Until the Darkness of Minas Morgul woke him up. And once he woke up, and realized he was trapped in the shield that kept him and those he had become one with from entering Arda.He. Wanted. Out.For years he bashed and raged against the shield, unable to break free but allowing small bits of himself through. Lorien had foreseen that he might awaken one day, and had taken many precautions to keep him out of Middle-earth. But there was one thing the Valar had not known about him. He may not be able to enter Arda, but he could see into and influence it. By planting pieces of his Darkness into fading elves' souls, and by taking over the Nazgûls' wills, he was able to use them to learn about Arda, and use his slaves to set about putting his plans in motion. He had one goal at that time: to be free.And thanks to the Valar, he knew exactly what was needed for him to enter the world. While the Valar had sealed him, he may not have been awake or aware, but he still heard all around him. And once he awoke, he remembered. He remembered how Lorien spoke of a Ring that may soon be created, how it would be forged in fire with a Dark Lord's soul, and he instantly knew that it was the key. He knew this because when he absorbed pieces of the consciousness and souls of all of the Darkness imprisoned within him, he gained their knowledge of Dark Spells and Magic. Also, Lorien had openly told him about the only things that could destroy him, knowing that he could hear the Valar and would remember. After all, the only thing that could free him was forged in the same place as the only things that could kill him. How annoyingly ironic.But that did not matter. He was not even sure if the Three Black Weapons existed. Even if they did, all he had to do was kill one of the Wielders and the problem would be solved. For now, he would not care about prophecy and meddlesome Valar. It was impossible that anyone even knew of the Weapons. This was not the time for worries, it was the time for triumph.Finally, after so long being trapped, he was finally out. The blackness he had once been remained trapped, and still kept prisoner the lingering bits of those he had absorbed into himself. But his consciousness— his self— was free.He was the prison of Morgoth. He was the blackness outside of the world. He was the evil within everyone's thoughts, and the Darkness within all people's souls. He filled the void in fading elves' spirits, enslaving their will and corrupting them from the inside. He was a demon, Evil Incarnate, and now he had a physical form. Now, he was free.He was Iãgaw. He was the Void....And in Mirkwood, eight elves went still.Thranduil and Aglar were in a meeting. Fael, Megilag, and Bereneth were on separate patrols. Hannel was visiting Barhad in the palace. And Legolas was walking alone in the woods, near the shadowed part of the forest.None of the Royal family moved, all standing in a position that eerily mirrored each other. Back straight, arms at their sides, head tilted back as if they were looking at the sky. Their eyes were blank, not seeing anything in front of them. The elves in the meeting and on the patrols remained instinctively silent, afraid to shatter the heaviness that came over them all, a feeling of ancientness and power penetrating the air. Every elf in Mirkwood felt it and went still, and even the animals and Spiders were unmoving.The Royal Family's arms rose as one and they looked up, as if they were about to take off and fly. Their mouths moved, voices that were their own and yet not coming from their throats. Their voices echoed and rippled in a chorus of tones, the sound of each Royal's own voice distant and tinny, like a lost undertone. Together, despite the distance between them, Thranduil, Aglar, Hannel, Megilag, Barhad, Bereneth, Fael, and Legolas began to chant."Balan ned Arda, gar dan sen Môr.Beria sen Aranath ah brethil, gwaew, lhorn, edhelharn.Me plada i Iãgaw, i medi ned Arda.Me ialia an Iaun, beria min taur bar!Arda, bantirith ammen, carth ammen ler balan,Ed ir E cene ammen E innas cenei.Esgal ammen o i henn nes caro laew gorgor,A i ed ned E Ogol gwedh.Gwelu, beria ammen, amath ammen o E cened.Edhelharn, dar min lorn, al min coth.Brethil, amad ammen, a bandar min edrain tong.Lhorn, berain ammen, dram ed dan pân Duir le cen.Arda, beria ammen, min Gwaith, Faer, a Galad!"Three times the Royal family spoke the Chant. Their hair whipped about them as if they were in a storm, their eyes glowed with power, turning pure white, and their voices boomed like thunder, heard through all corners of the realm. Power pulsed and grew with every word, growing in mass and presence with ever pitch and note. It touched the Light trees that still survived in Mirkwood, and their acceptance of the Chant's call was quick and welcoming.They are calling us, the still-Light trees whisper. The Light trees shall answer.The power rushed into them like a river into a pool. The Light trees shifted and woke fully, feeling stronger and more active than they had in a long time. Their branches waved and their leaves grew greener, their limbs gaining new vitality and strength. The Light trees felt their full Light return, the Darkness prodding at them vanishing like it never existed. The Chant went farther out, reaching into the darker parts of the forest.The shadowed trees recoiled, shrieking and hissing in pain and disgust. Why do the bright-elves call us? Leave us alone! Leave!For a moment the power halted, seven presences struggling against the shadowed trees' anger. The shadowed trees snarled and snapped at them, rejecting their call and chant. But the eighth presence had no such troubles, touching the trees and whispering to them without causing pain and anger. The trees recognized the eighth.Daelas is calling us, they said to one another. Daelas calls upon us.They shuffled and shifted, unsure of themselves. Daelas was calling them, but the too-bright, painful elves were as well. They did not want to help the too-bright elves, but Daelas...A few of the shadowed trees could see Daelas, standing in the forest and looking like a spirit of nature and storms. He called upon them again, one voice reaching their darkened minds, and the shadowed trees made a decision.Daelas calls us. We will help Daelas. The shadowed trees answer the call.With this acceptance the shadowed trees changed. They did not become untouched by Darkness like their Light kin, but grew stronger and wilder, with sharper leaves and whipping limbs. They could move like they never could, swinging and twisting like a creature made of flesh. And, suddenly, the Light did not hurt so much, and was not so painful to see. So while the shadowed trees felt wilder, they also felt... calmer. And suddenly, they hated the Dark creatures in and beneath their boughs.The Spiders inside Mirkwood sensed the change in the trees and shrieked, fleeing outside of the power's influence and hiding on the other side of the river. The orcs too felt the power and flinched, some collapsing and screaming as the Chant reached their ears. Any within the forest ran with the Spiders, unable to stand the Chant echoing through the woods. They did not stop running until they were out of the realm, where the Chant was not heard and the power did not press down upon them.Dol Guldur, its occupants empty and its power much weakened after the White Council's attack, cracked, a long jagged line running across its base. Pieces of stone rained down. No one was around to see the Hill of Sorcery collapse, crumbling in on itself and sending dust flying up into the air. Luckily for the Shadow, the fortress had been abandoned after the White Council's invasion. A single shadowed oak tree stood in the center of the rubble, in the remainders of a courtyard. It raised its limbs in triumph and called to its allies, which it could see for the first time in many years.The Shadow was not purged, but pushed out with force, only the shadowed-but-more-sane trees remaining within Mirkwood, and keeping it true to its name. The best way to hide light was with shadows after all.The trees bordering the forest wound their limbs together, closing off the great roads that lead into Mirkwood and sealing the realm, an impassible fence grown from the ground. One could walk around the entire forest and find no place to get into it. The only way someone could get inside was if the shadowed trees moved aside and let them in.It was done.Where they stood, the Royals lowered their arms, the sense of power fading from around and within them. No one moved, not Royals, warriors, or council members. All were silent, waiting with bated breath to see what would happen next. In the council chamber, the Elvenking looked up, his eyes back to their natural blue hue."We are safe." Thranduil said in a vague, echoing voice. His gaze was still blank and far away, seeing things no one else could. A tear trickled down his cheek, dropping unnoticed to the floor."My Lord, what is it?" Tollui asked, alarmed. His hand stretched out but he did not touch his king, afraid that doing so would break the calmness surrounding his lord."I felt him..." the Sindar whispered vaguely in that same, echoing tone. "He is alive..." Thranduil's dazed eyes looked at him, and a smile crossed his face, an expression of pure joy despite the distance in his eyes."...Legolas..."As one, the eight members of the Royal Family collapsed.…Back in Minas Morgul, a glint of gold caught Iãgaw's crimson eyes. He looked down, eyes narrowing with dislike, and picked up the Ring from where it had fallen on the floor. He had thought it would be destroyed during the ritual, but apparently not. The Ring shuddered and quaked in the dark monster's hold, the lettering along it's band glowing brightly.Iãgaw let it go, watching as it floated up in front of his face. Two giant hands rose, and slammed together around the Ring. A high-pitched, agonized scream ripped through the air, heard by all corners of the world. A violent light shone out from between his fingers and the One Ring exploded into dust.Without fanfare or dramatics the One Ring was destroyed, its weakened master dying with it as swiftly as a candle-flame perished in the wind. Power was such a petty thing, and something that was once seen as powerful could be easily overcome by something more so. But Iãgaw did not need to be concerned about that.Nothing was more powerful than him.The giant hands fell, and an expression of contempt crossed the shadowy face. That done, he looked north, in the vague direction of the two Ring-bearing elven realms, and spoke."Awaken."And another shudder went through the world.LOTRLOTRLOTRA loud bang followed by a startled scream sent Glorfindel's already alarmed mind into overdrive. The Vanyar ran towards the distressed sound, bursting into Elrond's study with his sword drawn. His friend was on the ground with an unconscious Erestor at his side, breathing heavily as he stared at a black scorch mark on the floor with shock."Are you all right? What happened?" the Balrog Slayer demanded. He stared at the scorch mark, eyes narrowed. "What caused that?"Elrond's whipped around to face him, eyes wild and filled with fear. "Vilya is gone. So is the One Ring. I-It exploded into shadows and flames. If Galadriel had not warned me to remove it...""What?!"The Peredhel ignored the stunned Vanyar, eyes widening. He stumbled to his feet, gripping Glorfindel's arm tightly to gain his attention. "That doesn't matter!" he snapped urgently. "Gather the warriors and prepare for attack."The Balrog Slayer stared at him incredulously. "The destruction of the Ring doesn't— Wait. What attack?"Elrond's eyes darkened. "The one who destroyed the Ring was momentarily connected to it. Through it, he saw the bearers of the Three Rings of Power. And through us... he saw the elven realms."It took a moment for his words to sink in. "No." Glorfindel whispered."Yes." the Elf Lord said softly, painfully. "The Enemy know where we are! They're coming to Rivendell!"The Vanyar went from stillness and shock to movement in a second. He raced out of the door, trusting Elrond to check on Erestor as he ran towards the warriors quarters. In the hall he slammed into someone, both elves falling to the ground. Glorfindel regained his footing, glancing at the other. Relief washed through him. The other elf was one of his warriors"Liphen. Gather as many warriors as you can and prepare for an attack. The Enemy has found us." he said rapidly.Without even glancing at the other, he went to continue his urgent run to warn his warriors, only to halt when the warrior in front of him did not move."Liphen!" he said sharply. "Now is not the time for freezing."The warrior did not speak or move. Then, abrupt as a lightning strike, he struck, fist slamming into the side of the Balrog Slayer's head. He fell, vision blurring and blackness creeping in on his vision, the blow knocking awareness from him like water closing over his head.The last thing he saw before unconscious took him were the warrior's eyes. Eyes, once blue, were no longer the bright color of an elf's gaze. Now they were a dark, merciless black, the sclera and irises completely taken over, as if the elf had the eyes of a bug... or a demon.Too late, Glorfindel remembered that Liphen was a Shadowed Elf. Too late, he understood what the Darkness in the Shadowed Elves wanted. Too late, he realized why the tainted elves had been so benign, acted so loyal, and pretended to be completely themselves. Their Master had ordered them to wait. To wait for him.The Shadowed Elves were no longer loyal to Elrond or the Free People. The Shadowed Elves no longer had to hide their true selves. It was too late for them, and for the ones they had betrayed. They were no longer in control of their own minds. They no longer fought for the Free People of Middle-earth. They had been awoken.Their Master had come.LOTRLOTRLOTRTranslations:Iãgaw: Void (created from two separate meanings of void)(IMPORTANT! READ THIS!) What the Royal Family chanted: "Powers of Arda, hold back this Darkness.Protect this Kingdom with tree, wind, water, stone.We feel the Void, the devourer of Arda.We ask for Sanctuary, protect our forest home!Arda, safeguard us, lend us your power,So when He seeks us He will not find.Hide us from the eyes that make most cower,And the reach of His Evil bind.Air, protect us, shield us from His sight.Stone, remain our anchor, not our enemy.Trees, preserve us, and seal our borders tight.Water, defend us, lash out against all Dark you see.Arda, protect us, our People, Souls, and Light!"(Most of the translations are from the Hisweloke's Sindarin Dictionary, but some of the above words are made up or exchanged for ones with similar meanings. Only a couple though. If you are an expert in Sindarin and know the proper words, please tell me them!)A/N: As was made obvious this chapter, the Darkness was not Sauron, and was not Morgoth. I chose to create an evil entity based on things within Tokien's works because it leaves you guys guessing. You know practically nothing about this threat, and will only learn it as the characters do and as the story progresses. This way, you don't have any preset expectations or knowledge, just like you would not have any if this were a real book. Also... a certain family finally knows that their youngest member is alive... :DResponses to Guest reviews:To "Baow": Thank you!To "Maia": Thanks! Sorry for taking so long to update.To "Guest": Thanks for understanding. Again, life was being exceptionally demanding, rude, and mean. :(To "guest2000": Thank you!To "Mary Elrondite": Thanks! You were right about the hobbits going to Rivendell (along with Erebor and Dale) but I didn't show it.To "Anony-Mouse": Thank you!To "Lurker": Thanks! To "Issy": Thank you!To "Guest": Thanks!To "Evie west": Thank you! To "archangelofloki": Thanks!To "Guest": Thank you!To "Naomi": Thanks!To "nightrunner144": Thank you! I didn't really go into how Legolas feels about Bilbo keeping the Ring a secret this chapter, but the next one (or the one after that) will explore that more.To "emi": Thanks! Bilbo knew the Ring was the One because when three Ringwraiths appear on your doorstep, you kinda put two and two together. Also, when they appeared, the writing on the Ring also appeared. I didn't go into that because of the POV change. Yeah, Gollum really is dead. There will be a council, but not yet. And its obviously going to be AU.Part One: The Hidden Guardian is over. Next chapter marks the start of Part Two: The Lost Prince.Please review!


********** Page 24 **********

A/N: Sorry for the wait. Life plus the chaos of the holidays meant no update. I was only able to write about a sentence at a time before I had to run off and do something. I've pretty much been playing connect the sentences for the past months. Ick. Welcome to All That Remains Part Two: "The Lost Prince".Summary: AU. As Darkness covers Arda and the dangerous entity Iãgaw begins his quest to destroy Middle-earth, "Esgal" (Legolas) and his allies fight the rising Darkness in a decimating war none saw coming. Meanwhile, Thranduil and his kin— with the knowledge that Legolas is alive— search for their missing family member, not realizing he is right before their eyes. Loyalties are tested and broken, friendships are forged and cast away, and old enemies return seeking vengeance, riding under the banner of the Void. This is the battle for the survival of Middle-earth, and in the end only one side will triumph. So will the end of the Shadow War see the beginning of a new age, or will Darkness be all that remains?Main/Prominent Characters: (in no particular order) Legolas(Esgal), Thranduil, Aragorn, Boromir, Elrond, Elladan, Elrohir, Glorfindel, Gimli, Frodo, Pippin, Merry, Sam, Haldir, Kili, Fili, Eomer, Gandalf, Radagast, Thorin, Galadriel, Celeborn, Erestor, Bilbo, Faramir, Legolas's siblings (OCs), and many, many others.*Please note that many of the events in this chapter are happening simultaneously. Also, in some sections things happen very quickly. The word I would use to describe this chapter is "chaotic". After all, what else would you call the apocalypse?LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Twenty-Three: Shadowed ElvesBoromir, son of Denethor, was feeling conflicted. His thoughts and emotions pulled him in different directions, tearing at him like rabid dogs and making him unable to find peace. Even in the beautiful garden in Rivendell that he sat in, he felt both awe and unease.Here in the elven realm it was peaceful, startlingly so, and as a man who had grown up under the threat of the Shadow, the tranquility of the Hidden Valley left him feeling disturbed. Despite himself, Boromir was as jumpy as a nervous foal, twitching at every sudden sound and expecting an attack to come at any moment.His general wariness about the elves was not helping to calm him. Boromir would not call himself prejudiced or close-minded, but he was not comfortable around the mysterious immortals. Whispers of old stories he had heard as a child concerning the elves plagued the back of his mind. Tales of stolen children, witches, seducing spells, and curses that would make a man lose his mind wormed their way through his thoughts, speaking to him in a voice that sounded unnervingly like his father's.The man of Gondor ignored said voice and thoughts to the best of his ability, instead vowing to try to follow Faramir's way, and judge the elves for himself. Boromir was trying to keep an open mind, he really was, but old feelings and a bit of anger continued to sneak up on him. He loved and cherished the peace of the realm, but also felt slight bitterness that Rivendell managed to be untouched by war while his city lived under constant threat.Even in the garden his thoughts returned to Gondor, and the man grimaced at thin air. This year had been the first he had accepted Lord Elrond's invitation to stay in Rivendell for a few days, and Boromir found that he could not fully be glad or regret deciding to remain. It had been the concerned, hopeful expression in Elrond's wise eyes that had made the decision for him, and it was only once he had been shown to a room and had looked into a mirror that the man had realized why the Elf Lord had stared at him so.Boromir had led many battles and seen many warriors lose the will to fight endlessly, and in his own eyes he saw the emotions he had never wanted to see: Hopelessness and despair. He was tired with fighting a war that refused to end.As such, even with his wariness and inability not to worry about his home Boromir felt a little better having had stayed in the peaceful Rivendell. A week of rest and recuperation for his mind and will had been good for him, despite his warrior's mind waiting for the next tragedy to strike. That was why he would begin his journey home tomorrow, he decided. He had been away from Gondor for long enough...A distant, alarmed cry sent the man to his feet, jerkily reaching for the sword that was not hanging from his hip. He did not stop to think about it as he ran towards the continuing shouts, someone speaking desperately in a language that made no sense to Boromir's ears. Elvish? He pushed his thoughts aside, his ever-ready warrior mentality taking over. Something had happened. Something was wrong. He needed to investigate, and prepare for attack. There was no such thing as peace anymore.The man did not enter so much as burst into the room the cries were coming from, his grey eyes taking in the scene before him in an instant. The Ranger from the councils— whom he had heard was called both "Estel" and "Strider"— and one of Elrond's twin sons was kneeling over an unmoving form. The elf on the floor was the exact image of the one fretting over him, and was undeniably unconscious. His dark hair was splayed about his pale face, his body was limp, and— most alarmingly— his eyes were closed. Boromir had been around the elves enough to know that, for them, closed eyes was never good.The conscious twin was the one he had heard, shouting frantically at his unresponsive brother. Although he could not understand the flowing words, it was terribly clear that the twin was begging his brother to awaken. It was also clear that the panicking twin was getting in Strider's way, the man's voice harsh and low as he spoke to the elf in that kind's language. Again, the meaning of his words were clear, despite Boromir's inability to translate them: "Get out of my way so I can help him."Even though he appeared to have discovered the source of the disturbance, the constant thought of Danger, Danger, Danger, repeated itself at the back of Boromir's mind. He remained alert even as he approached the trio."What happened?" the man asked.The Ranger looked up at him, relief flashing across his features. "Elrohir collapsed. I can't figure out what is wrong because Elladan refuses to let me check him." There was taut frustration in the man's tone and he glared at his brother. "If you could get him away so I could do what I need to without him hovering, I would greatly appreciate it."The elf glowered at him, not appreciating Strider speaking about him as if he were not there. Anger, fear, and protectiveness warred in his expression, alien yet oddly familiar. Boromir had seen that expression before, on his own face. It was then that he recalled that Elladan was the older twin, and Elrohir the younger. For a moment it was Faramir was lying on the floor in front of the man and he winced, shuddering."I am a healer as well," Elladan snapped. "I can—""You are panicking and emotional." Strider said coolly. "You're too close to Elrohir and so you cannot think straight and you are letting your emotions cloud your judgement. You'll only hinder more than help. So please, let me help him."The twin opened his mouth to protest but Boromir put a hand on his shoulder, drawing the elf's attention to him. "Let him do what he needs to." he said softly. "Your brother will be fine." He tried to convey his thoughts through his words, trying to tell the other older brother that he understood. He knew what it was like to see a sibling injured before him.Elladan looked ready to lash out at him and protest, but when silver met grey eyes, the older twin stopped. He nodded once and allowed the man to pull him back, finally letting Strider thoroughly check Elrohir. Instead of looking at his brothers, Elladan instead studied Boromir. The silver eyes of the elf pierced the man, looking deep into his soul. He forced himself to not look away, gazing back at Elladan steadily. The staring contest went on for several minutes before the twin broke the silence."You have a younger brother, don't you?" the elf said.The man barely hesitated before responding. "Yes.""...I see." the elf said softly and turned away, watching the Ranger with such intensity Boromir was surprised he did not burst into flames.An uneasy silence fell over the room as Strider went about, checking Elrohir's vitals and making such he did not hit his head. The man remained calm and collected, going about his business with careful detachment, though Boromir guessed that inside he was screaming with worry.After only a few minutes he sat back on his heels, expression dark. "I cannot find any reason for his collapse. It seems like he just fainted.""Elrohir doesn't faint." Elladan growled, fired up once more. "Something is wrong! He was perfectly fine one minute and then the next he just—"A small groan interrupted the coming tirade. All eyes went to the younger twin, who shifted and winced, opening bleary silver eyes. Then with an abruptness that startled the still-edgy Boromir, the elf gasped and leapt to his feet, swaying on the spot and talking frantically in Elvish. The man from Gondor could only watch in alarm as Elrohir raced out the door like an elf possessed. Elladan shouted something in the same language— perhaps learning Elvish was a good idea— before the older twin and the Ranger ran after their brother.Boromir followed as well, forced to run at a full pelt in order to keep the elves and Strider in sight. They turned left, right, left, the man losing his sense of direction as the chase led them through the Hidden Valley. His still-alert mind noticed that the halls were oddly empty for the time of day. Where had everyone gone?Up ahead, Elrohir burst through another door, leaping forward with an indistinct cry. Boromir arrived in the hallway in time to see the twin tackle an elf, sending them both to the ground with a crash. The man only took a second to take in the scene. Most importantly, he noted the unconscious golden-haired elf on the floor, and the sword in Elrohir's target's hand. His mind was quick to realize what had happened, though it cried out in rejection of his thoughts.After all, why would an elf attack another?Strider and Elladan seemed to be having similar thoughts, both frozen and unmoving as they watched their brother grapple with the other. A sword was still gripped in the antagonist's hand, Elrohir hard-pressed to keep it away from him. For once, Boromir was the one who reacted first, grabbing the other elf's sword-hand and twisting it painfully, forcing him to release the weapon.Rather than cry out in pain the elf snarled, turning towards him, and the man caught a glimpse of demonic black eyes before the elf broke away from Elrohir, leaping for the captain like a rabid animal. Boromir gave a yell of surprise as the elf brought him to the ground. He gasped and choked as pale hands wrapped around his throat, staring with horror as his eyes met enraged black. All signs of reason and sanity were gone from the elf's gaze, leaving nothing behind but rage and bloodlust.Boromir's struggles startled Strider and Elladan out of their shock. They and Elrohir all lunged for the possessed elf, pulling him off of the man. Quick as a blink the immortal struck out again, foot meeting Elladan's chest and sending the older twin flying back. He landed hard, hand to his chest and gasping for breath.The deranged elf's strength quickly became known as he twisted and fought in the three remaining warriors' grasps. Boromir could barely hold down the arm he found himself pinning, watching out of the corner of his eye as the other two were barely able to do the same."Elladan, knock him unconscious!" Strider shouted, grimacing as the black-eyed elf snapped at him with his teeth.The older twin stumbled to his feet, closed fists slamming down on the crazed elf's head. The terrifying black eyes closed and their enemy went limp. The danger passing, Boromir leaned back, breathing ragged from the brief yet intense struggle."Are you all right, Elladan?" Strider asked his brother.The older twin nodded mutely, face slightly pale. "...That hurt more than it should have." he said, voice slightly strained. "I don't think anything is broken though."The Ranger began looking over the unconscious golden-haired elf, who Boromir could now identify as Glorfindel. "He was struck from behind." the man reported. His brow furrowed. "If we hadn't arrived, Liphen would have killed him.""Why would an elf murder one of their kin?" Boromir asked. "I thought that kinslaying was one of the greatest crimes an elf could commit." He did not miss the significant glance that passed between the three sons of Elrond. "You know what is happening, don't you?" he stated. "You know why Liphen attacked Lord Glorfindel, and why his eyes were like that."The twins looked unwilling to share any information, but Strider looked the captain straight in the eye. "Yes. Liphen is known as a Shadowed Elf, an elf infected with Darkness. Before now, the Darkness was barely noticeable and caused little change in behavior, but now...""Now Liphen has transformed into a bloodthirsty orc." Elladan spat. "How did this happen? And why now? There were no warnings or signs that he would become like this!""It is not just him," Elrohir said, a wild look lingering in his silver eyes. "It is all of them... Their auras..." He shuddered.His twin whirled to face him. "You can sense them?" he demanded.Wide, horrified eyes met his. "How can you not sense them? The Darkness was so great I collapsed under the strength of it. It is like a mountain is pressing down on me." His eyes squeezed shut and he pressed a hand over them, as if doing so would banish the sickening auras that were overwhelming him. "Anger, wrath, savage bloodlust... They aren't elves anymore. The Darkness has devoured their souls— "A single, agonized scream interrupted Elrohir, and four sets of eyes turned instinctively towards the sound. Outside, beneath the shining sun, the beautiful trees, and exquisite arches of Rivendell, elves fought elves. Boromir could only watch in horror as a male elf stabbed the female who had screamed in the throat, leaving her to bleed out.He watched as another elf evaded his attacker's sword, shouting and pleading in Elvish with a bewildered, terrified, and betrayed expression on his face. His attacker— who looked so similar to his prey that they must be close kin— ignored the other's words, coldly stepping forward and plunging his blade into his victim's chest, turning away without a second thought.Even from a distance, Boromir could see the elf's demonic black eyes. Even from a distance, the man could see the shocked, confused expressions on the defenders' faces as their fellow warriors turned on them.Here, up a level in a mockingly peaceful hall, he witnessed the peace of Rivendell shattering, brother killing brother, friend murdering friend, mother killing son. Most still-Light elves were without weapons, but the Shadowed Elves were all armed. Outside was not the beginnings of a battle, but a massacre.It was not one of the twins, but Strider who took charge. "Elladan, gather the warriors. Elrohir, take Glorfindel to Ada. Boromir, grab Liphen's sword and come with me. Be ready to fight."His tone was the commanding and harsh voice of a leader, and the three obeyed without question. The twins darted off, many questions for the younger left unanswered, and Boromir followed the Ranger, the elven sword gripped tightly in his hand.They were running, Strider only armed with a dagger and he only with a sword. The man of Gondor cursed himself for not carrying his own weapons around the Hidden Valley. He knew, in his head, that Strider was as well."How many Shadowed Elves are there in Rivendell?" the captain wanted to know.The Ranger's expression was dark. "Three hundred and fifty-eight. There are only twenty guards, so unless some warriors are returning from patrol, everyone else is weaponless." He gritted his teeth, fear, anger, and despair warring in his silver eyes. "We were fools, to think ourselves safe here. We should have known better than to believe in peace!"There was no more time to talk, for they had reached their enemy. Out near the entrance of Rivendell the elves bitterly fought, a few warriors able to incapacitate or kill the Shadowed Elves and take weapons from them. The first thing Strider did upon his arrival was strike down a Shadowed Elf, taking his sword and raising his voice to be heard over the chaos."Do not hold back! They are no longer your friends or even elves any longer! The Darkness has taken them! Fight them as you would fight orcs! Fightwithout mercy, for you will receive none!"Bright, colored elf-eyes hardened, expressions grew cold, and with a mental strength and determination Boromir knew he could never match, the elves fought their former kin, friends, and comrades. The man of Gondor rallied his own courage and strength, leaping into the fray to confront the first Shadowed Elf he met. Mindful of the demonized elf's strength and speed, he resolved to dispatch of them in as few strikes as possible.Boromir blocked a blow aimed at his side and delivered his own horizontal slash. The blade was lighter than he was used to, but its weight allowed him to swing it faster, harder. The Shadowed Elf did not expect the human to be so quick, and was unused to its new strength.Metal sank into flesh.They are no longer elves. They are no longer elves.Blood flowed from clear pale, glowing skin.They are no longer elves. They are no longer elves.A voice screamed, oddly beautiful even when in agony.They are no longer elves. They are no longer elves.Unseeing eyes remained black even in death, still holding the unnerving glow of the Eldar.They are no longer elves. They are no longer elves.An immortal, once Light and free, was cut down without mercy by his sword, the creature's life severed forever.They are no longer elves. They are no longer elves.They were no longer elves. They were Shadowed Elves. They were creatures of Darkness, servants to evil, and they were his enemy. He did not hesitate, cry, or grieve. He did not pause, or reconsider his actions. Instead he fought, to protect his allies and himself, from the enemies that had destroyed the peace. He was only a man, yet he fought against the Shadowed Elves.He sank into his warrior's mindset and forgot the past of his foes, the thoughts Survive and Protect becoming his mantra. He killed and defended and killed again, as ruthless as a man facing orcs. This was the enemy, and they must be defeated. There was no place for mercy or hesitation here.A sharp thrust killed another Shadowed Elf, a quick block saving an ally from death. He stepped forward, parrying the next strike, and cut off his enemy's head.Boromir turned and was forced to duck in order to avoid a swinging sword, the Shadowed Elf's expression promising nothing but pain and death. Suddenly he was clumsy and slow in comparison to the creature before him, this Shadowed Elf used to his new strength and power. The man was forced to defend himself, barely blocking each quick, deadly, intentional blow. His enemy was smirking, baring his teeth, playing with the human, an orc with an elf's face and a demon's eyes.Then the Shadowed Elf cried out, a sword sticking from his chest, and he fell to reveal Elladan standing there, solemn and grim. The warriors the older twin had gathered joined the fray, armed, dangerous, and with the same grim expressions as the dark-haired elf's. Fighting became easier then, the twin watching the man's back as they faced the enemies that had come from within.All was lost in the haze and chaos of battle, the enemies steadily becoming harder to kill as the Shadowed Elves realized their new ability and strength. If a blow did not take them down immediately, they would still fight, ignoring their wounds as if they did not even exist. One thing was for certain: whatever Darkness had taken over these elves had greatly changed them, both in body and mind. They were now faster, stronger, and more durable then their kin.A flash of black in the corner of his eye made him turn, to see another Shadowed Elf standing beneath the arch that was the entrance to the Hidden Valley. Behind them, clearly visible beneath the still-shining sun, was an army of orcs. Boromir must have made a sound, a gasp or horrified intake of breath, for many of his allies turned in the same direction as he, freezing as they spotted the dark army ready to invade.Beneath the blazing sun that no longer harmed them, the army of orcs hesitated just outside the Hidden Valley. One stood right at the end of the bridge, a single step forward enough to bring him into the sanctuary that none of his kind had ever entered.Yellow eyes glared at the elves fighting their Shadowed enemies in the courtyard, obviously eager to join the battle. However, he still hesitated, his kin lingering behind him, as if they were afraid that an invisible force would kill them all if they took a single step further. The need for blood warred with a feeling of self-preservation. But as an unnamed still-Light elf screamed and died on a Shadowed Elf's blade, one side won out, and demolished the other.A foot lifted, a boundary was passed, and the first orc stepped into Imladris.LOTRLOTRLOTRLegolas was in pain.He floated between consciousness and blackness, unwilling to enter the living world but unable to sink into oblivion. Either option would be preferable to the state he found himself in now. Here, somewhere in between, he was unaware of his body, but he felt pain. He did not know there the flares of hurt ripping through him came from but his entire being felt as if it were being torn apart.Knives stabbed and twisted within him, ripping and tearing at him without a care for the one who was trapped in silent agony. Deep within him, a war was being waged, two sides clashing. Something was changing, shifting within him, and for a beat of heart-stopping fear he thought an enemy was invade to enter his mind. He tried to sense his shields, to bring them up and protect himself, only to realize that they were intact. Whatever was attacking him was already inside.Legolas floundered in the blackness, lost in a sea of confusion and pain. Here he had no sense of direction, not knowing up, down, left, or right any more than a blind man knew colors. A flicker of something— push-strain, hold-escape, calm-chaos, contain-trapped— caught his attention and he turned, pushing the pain away as best he could.Not far away was white light, shining, beautiful, and calm. No, not calm. It writhed and rippled, fighting and grim, as it fought to contain something within it.Blurs of colors were trapped within the light, pushing against its prison and struggling to escape. Flares of every hue from red to brown to periwinkle rippled and swarmed in the light, intriguing, wonderful, and nauseating all at once. They swirled dizzily as they tried to gain momentum and escape, only for the light to hold fast and keep them imprisoned.Watching the two forces battle, Legolas realized that they were the source of his pain. They were the reason he felt like he was being torn apart. The light and the colors— two pieces of himself?— fought bitterly, one seeking freedom while the other sought to keep its prisoner contained. Fire coursed through the elf with every clash and defense, the feeling of being ripped in half strengthening.It was too much. He knew if the war continued he would be destroyed, through death, madness, or eternal darkness he did not know. A bolt of utter blackness swamped him but he pushed out of it, struggling like a drowning man.Desperately, he tried to analyze the light and the colors, needing to pick a side to assist. Once he did, the battle would end, the light or the colors emerging victorious. He had no idea what the haphazard mix of colors and hues could be, but the light was much easier to identify.It was a bright, brilliant light, burning strongly and determinedly as it kept the colors contained and the darkness away. He instinctively knew that this was a part of his very soul, his contained elvish glow. But what could his inner light be imprisoning? What could it be keeping locked away in his body, soul, or... mind.Another wave of blackness washed over him but he fought free of it. The assassin stared intently at the colors, noting that they were not quite blurs, but colored strands woven together. His agony was forgotten and excitement rose inside him. His inner light protected his body, soul, and mind, and had been for years......ever since he had lost his memories.Could his light be protecting them as well, even from himself, by keeping them locked away? Had he accidentally taken away— contained— his own memories when he had created his mental shield with his glow? In Dol Guldur, if he had been who he was before, he would not have survived. So had he intentionally cut off that part of himself to protect himself? There was only one way to find out.Wary against hoping but knowing with each step he was right, Legolas ran towards the light and the struggling colors, towards his memories. They were right there! They had been there the whole time! He could reach them now, see them, remember them! He could remember who he had been—!Something wrapped around his middle and he jerked to a halt, as abrupt as a falling creature was stopped by a rope around his waist. Legolas struggled against the white light— not his light— that held him fast. His fighting became desperate as the light tugged at him, trying to pull him away.No! he cried soundlessly, writhing and pulling against his bond, reaching out desperately towards the colored strands. Please, no!His memories were right in front of him, inches from his fingertips. He strained, unable to gain ground. More light-ropes wrapped around his torso, pulling strongly, and he became distantly aware of a voice chanting something. In the back of his mind he recognized a healing spell but he ignored it, fighting against the ropes with all his strength.Even more ropes came, binding him, and began to slowly but surely drag him away from his goal. Legolas did not have the ability to cry in this place but despair ripped through him as painfully as a knife.He cursed, struggled, pleaded with the ropes to release him, to please let him go. They and the voice commanding them did not listen. The assassin gave a scream of grief as the distance between himself and his memories grew greater. He needed something, anything from his past. A fact, an instinct, a flicker... anything at all!Legolas strained and fought, begged and wailed, but his will and strength were not enough against the insistent ropes that caught him. His memories became distant, the light fading, and with a desperate heave he yanked against the ropes, hand stretching uselessly towards them...A single colored strand slipped through the protective light, floating gently through the nothingness between Legolas and his memories. He watched its path hungrily, desperation in his violet eyes as it floated closer, closer. It hovered near him, following as the ropes pulled him back, as if it were hesitant to give him what he wanted, what he needed.Please... the assassin thought, stretching as far as he could.With careful, whisper-like grace, the string touched his fingertip.The reaction was instantaneous, an almost physical pulse making him lose all sense of self. A feeling of painful blankness swamped him, and for an instant he remembered nothing. All memory and all things that made him him abandoned him, his mind wiped clean.Who am I? What am I? Where am I? What happened? He screamed in terror, because there was nothing left—Mercifully, his loss only lasted a moment, and before he could even comprehend it his mind and his memories— Precious, so precious. Ai Valar they had all been gone!— returned. He felt heavy and weak, like he was waking after being heavily ill. He tried to open his eyes but his body refused to obey him. So he remained limp and unmoving as he was... carried?Arms were wrapped around him, carrying him along, and he could hear the muffled sounds of harsh breathing and someone... speaking. Yes, someone was talking. Could they be speaking to him? The assassin was so confused...The voice was panicked and frantic, yet familiar. For a moment he could not place it, but he eventually recognized Radagast's fearful tones. But why was the Brown Wizard so afraid? Were they being attacked or pursued? Were they in danger? If so, Legolas decided that he really should open his eyes. But he was so tired..."Breathe, Esgal!" Radagast was shouting. "Breathe!"Legolas could only mull over his confusion. The distance between his body and mind lingered, but he belatedly realized that his chest was burning. With a sharp gasp the assassin pulled air into his lungs, pain rippling down his airway as it was used once more."Good." Radagast encouraged, voice shaking slightly. "Very good. Don't worry, Esgal. We're almost to the palace. The healers will help you. You'll be fine..."The Istar's voice was fading, but the assassin did not mind. He did not wonder what had happened, or why the Wizard was so concerned. All that mattered was the single fact that had appeared in his mind, retrieved after being contained for so long.The "memory" he had gained was useless, unspecific, and the most unimportant thing he could have remembered... but it was something. Legolas felt himself smile, a weak, barely noticeable movement of his lips.I had a pet rabbit named Floppy. The assassin thought thought bemusedly.Then all thoughts fled, and everything faded to black.LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: Go me. I leave you with cliffhangers for months and then I come back with new cliffhangers. Hopefully I'll be able to update really soon this time...I don't own the "Fight without mercy..." line. Its from the Two Towers.There is no reason for me to write what the elves and Aragorn are saying in Sindarin since its Boromir's POV. When you hear something in a different language and you don't know the language, all you hear is gibberish. Here are some questions you probably have that will be answered in the near-future: What happened to Legolas? How did Radagast find him? Are the other Royal Family members all right? What did they do anyway? Why did Elrohir fall unconscious? How is it that he can now sense the Shadowed Elves? What is Iãgaw up to?Also... Yes, the orcs can now walk around in sunlight without issues.Thank you to everyone who reviewed! (Hugs) Sorry, but I'm not responding to guest reviews this time. I think you all would rather I update as soon as I'm done than go through and find all the guest reviews. I'm pretty sure that there was more than fifty of them for last chapter... Cool.Please review!


********** Page 25 **********

A/N: WARNING: Dark chapter. Death. More cliffhangers. Creepy stuff... Character death. (It's a minor person I swear!)LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Twenty-Four: IãgawIt was a scene from a nightmare. Elves fought orcs and their own kin beneath the Golden Trees, red and black blood splattering over their ancient roots. As a Sindar, Celeborn was not as aware of the trees' voices as some, but even he could hear their grief-stricken cries and horrified wails as the Firstborn fought and died beneath their boughs. Here in Lothlorien, a place that had always been untouched by the Darkness, the Galadrim and their leaders fought for their very lives.There had been no time to change into armor, so Celeborn fought in his robes, pieces of the once-beautiful garment ripped and torn away from near-misses and to allow him to move more freely. His sword— taken from a fallen Shadowed Elf— flashed and stabbed with grace, sinking into enemies with rapid, deadly thrusts.Galadriel fought at his side, pale yet fighting strongly even as she recovered from the shock of losing Nenya. Her breathless warning not so long ago had at least given the Galadrim enough time to realize that their Shadowed comrades were about to attack. Yet even the Lady of the Light had not seen the orcs coming to Lothlorien until they ran into the city, killing elves as they went.There had been no time to plan strategy or defense. The combined forces of the Shadowed Elves and invading orcs was slowly overwhelming the Galadrim, their home being overtaken faster than they thought possible. Already they had been pushed back to the center of the city.Celeborn dodged a swing from a Shadowed Elf, blade flicking upward to slice his former ally from hip to throat. Without watching his enemy— They were enemies now, not former allies.— fall, the Elf Lord turned, plunging his sword deep into the chest of an orc. A smooth pull detached the blade from the creature.His sword jerked up, blocking a Shadowed Elf's strike. Uiron. His name was Uiron. He had been five hundred when his patrol had been killed before his eyes, two hundred years ago. He had been the sole survivor, and had nearly faded, before the Darkness had filled the void in his soul with Shadows...Celeborn blocked again, the strength behind his enemy's blow forcing him back a step. He was on the defensive and he knew it, but could not bring himself to strike the other elf, the still-young elf who he had worried over and helped comfort when grief tried to take him—With a sharp cry the Lord of the Light lashed out with a horizontal sweep, catching the Shadowed Elf—Uiron— across his middle. He fell in two pieces, and Celeborn fought the urge to retch. Because he knew each elven face he fought. He knew each Shadowed Elf he killed. He had mentored them, fought beside them, cared for and cherished them, but now they were dark creatures and they were dying upon his sword.He was the Lord of the Light, the wisest elf in Middle-earth, but now all he wanted to do was curl up on the ground weep like a lost elfling. With every death around him, the knife that was his failure dug deeper into his heart. Because he had failed. He had failed each Shadowed Elf, failed to help them, failed to cure them, failed to stop them from falling into Darkness. Emotional detachment was useless and unattainable when one was killing those they had sworn to protect.Celeborn faced another orc, who was so much easier to kill than his Shadowed kin. He cut the creature open, black blood mixing with the red on his sword. Another black-armored enemy came upon him and he stabbed the orc in the shoulder. It did not fall, ignoring the pain it must be feeling as if it did not exist, and struck with its own blade.The Elf Lord released his sword, leaping back, and only received a small gash on his arm instead of a stab to his chest. The orc yanked the elven sword out of its body and roared, raising both its weapons in its hands and bearing down on Celeborn.The silver-haired elf only had to dodge once before the orc lost its head to an elven sword. Galadriel mutely plucked the taken elven sword from the dead orc's hand and giving it back to her husband. He accepted it and together they returned to the battle. There was no time for words, only war.Together, the Lord and Lady of the Light fought, watching each other's backs and fighting as one against the onslaught of enemies that refused to cease. There was no order or strategy in this battle, only the simple mantra of Kill, Survive, Kill, Survive.A distant order reached Celeborn's ears, and arrows flew down into their enemies from above. Haldir had managed to get into the weaponry, or perhaps had taken weapons from the enemy. The Galadrim archers had joined the fray, shooting into the enemy masses with icy precision.The archers were always better at detaching themselves from battle, for they purposely picked and shot at their target rather than taking them down in a frantic melee. They shot at orcs and Shadowed Elves alike without prejudice, knowing each arrow that flew would most likely end a life. The archers in the trees knew this, and accepted it, determined to protect their remaining comrades even if it meant purposely killing their former allies, family, and friends.Celeborn spotted Arwen among those in the trees and felt a mixture of relief that she was alright and sorrow that she was fighting. The elleth, who had never truly seen war, shot the enemy as determinedly as the seasoned warriors around her. Seeing his granddaughter there, shooting down her Shadowed kin, was what made Celeborn realize a terrible truth.Even though the battle was not yet won, the Sindar knew that once it was over, nothing would ever be the same. It did not matter whether Lothlorien survived and they forced the enemy out. Something terrible and irreversible had occurred this day. This day, elves had fought and killed fellow elves, in self-defense, yes, but still killing their own. The Shadowed Elves were not elves, yet at the same time they were. They had immortal, eternal lives, lives that were not meant to be severed so brutally.Was this Kinslaying, the most terrible crime an elf could commit? Or was this self-defense and war, the prevention of a massacre? Celeborn locked blades with a Shadowed Elf, looking into her eyes, into the black, demonic voids that had once been bright and clear. The eyes were the windows to the soul, and although the Shadowed Elf still glowed with her inner light, the Elf Lord could see that her soul and mind were gone. In their place was a void, dark and cold, echoing with rage and savagery and hatred.In was in those eyes that Celeborn found his answer. The Shadowed Elves had the faces, bodies, and glows of Light elves, but in truth they were slaves to the Darkness. They were shells of their former selves, the Darkness being all that remained. And he, unlike so many of the desperately-fighting Galadrim around him, knew who was to blame for their loss.Iãgaw. The Void.Celeborn had never heard that name before his wife uttered it upon her awakening, yet it sent an icy chill down his spine. It filled him with an unexplainable fear, making his heart pound and sweat bead on his forehead and palms. However, for the life of him, he did not know what Iãgaw was. He only knew that it was the Great Darkness Galadriel had foreseen, and that it was the one that invaded, enslaved, and controlled the Shadowed Elves.The Lord and Lady of Lothlorien both stepped forward, swords sinking into two orcs. He turned left, she right, and their slashing blades cut deep into their foes— more orcs. Celeborn slowly became aware of the decreased number of Shadowed Elves he faced, but was not naive enough believe that they were all being killed off.He could see them leaving, walking away without a care about their kin, abandoning them for the orcs to massacre. Their Master must have summoned them, calling them away from the fight. The strong Shadowed Elves were retreating, leaving the area and the numerous, easily expendable orcs behind...A foreboding feeling settled in Celeborn's chest and he caught his wife's eye, seeing that she felt the same sense of unease. But there was no way to retreat and no way to flee out of the way of danger. All they could do was keep fighting and survive.So the elves of Lothlorien fought on.LOTRLOTRLOTRThe feeling that the Witch-King was experiencing could only be described as awe.In the topmost tower of Minas Morgul, his Master stood before him, towering, powerful and cloaked in Shadows. The Darkness of the Nazgûl's home purred in contentment, wrapping around Iãgaw like a cat curling around its owner's neck.The demon had not moved since awakening the Shadowed Elves, remaining silent and still as the Darkness swirled around him. The Witch-King did not speak, move, or even breath, waiting with the same stillness as his Master. For a while they stayed like that, neither moving, neither speaking, as the Darkness pulsed and rippled around them.Then, demonic eyes opened.Iãgaw lifted a hand, and the Shadows converged upon him, swarming him like a thundercloud and hiding him from the Witch-King's view. The Darkness surged and snarled, twisting madly like rabid wargs devouring a carcass. However, instead of Iãgaw being consumed by the physical blackness around him, he devoured It.It sank into his skin, his shadowy form churning sickeningly. The Witch-King gasped aloud as the world around him shifted. He could feel what remained of his spirit being pulled. It was like a powerful force was dragging him towards his Master, pulling at him with all the strength and relentlessness of a thousand trolls. He could not breathe or think, his entire being in agony as he struggled against the force that tried to rip him away from himself. He felt as if he were being compressed and ripped apart all at once.Not noticing his servant's struggles, Iãgaw lifted both arms, eyes closing. Shadows rippled over his frame, churning and shifting, affecting all around it like a hurricane's wind. The Darkness cleared, revealing the Void once more, and the Nazgûl's pain was momentarily overcome by shock.If he did not know any better, the Witch-King would swear he was staring at an evil elf. He was clothed in a black tunic and leggings, with skin was only a shade lighter, a slight grey tint adding little lightness to the hue. Hair as black as night went down the "ellon's" back in waves but unlike mundane hair it did not shine or reflect light, instead seeming to suck it in from the air around it. His eyes had black sclera, with ruby red irises glowing out from the darkness like drops of blood. His teeth were pure white, startling against all the darkness around them, and when the "elf" smiled at the Nazgûl he revealed sharp eyeteeth."Do you feel it?" the dark, deep voice asked, echoing in the Witch-King's mind and ears. "There is so much Darkness in this world. I can feel all of the death and despair..." Iãgaw laughed, and it felt like a mountain was trying to crush the Nazgul's skull. He sank to his knees, unable to bear the strain of the power eating at him, whispering in his ear to cease his struggles and allow himself to be consumed—The Void looked down at him, expression twisted with annoyance. "Even you cannot stand in my presence without being affected. How irritating."The Witch-King could not even respond. Iãgaw scoffed, scarlet eyes flashing. The pulling, terrible pressure vanished and the Nazgûl could move again. If he had been human he would have sobbed with relief."I should have known that any creation of Sauron's would be so weak." the demon said coldly, his voice still dark but losing the echoing, pulling weight that threatened to erase the Witch-King's existence."My Lord, I apologize." the Ringwraith said reverently.The demon did not deign him with a response, instead gazing into the distance with glittering eyes. "My Shadowed Elves are doing well, though more have died than I thought would perish... The fools are unused to the strength I have granted them." Iagaw's voice was amused rather than irritated, as if he found his servants' incompetence to be of no matter. "It was not difficult to invade the elves' souls. They were fading from grief but desperate to escape it, letting me in without even knowing that they were doing it... Although I suppose that I already did exist within them, the Void inside them caused by the loss of their loved ones..." A dark laugh— which sounded like a fell beast's cry— made the room shake."How many remain, my Master?" the Witch-King dared to ask.The Void turned to look at him, an echo of the terrible crush-pulling-ripping force whispering over the Ringwraith. Then it was gone, and Iãgaw responded. "Many. I have summoned them here. They are leaving the elven realms. Where are the torches I requested?"The Witch-King opened the door and ushered the two Nazgûl waiting on the other side inside. Both held torches that glowed with the the yellow-green fire of Dark Magic. Yet even these flames— the only light in the room— seemed to flicker and quail in the Void's presence.Iãgaw stepped forward, touching the base of both fires. They faded before flaring up, growing to twice their size. To their credit, neither torch-wielding Ringwraith flinched, though the one on the left did shift nervously."These flames will burn on even after you release them." Iãgaw informed them. "Their fires will blaze until the sun rises on the second day. You know your mission."The two Nazgûl bowed low."Yes, my Lord." the one on the left murmured. "We will go there now."He made as if to leave, only for a hand— an elven hand that now sported orc-like claws— to land on his shoulder. The Ringwraith went still, not daring to move, as Iãgaw smiled with his too-sharp teeth."There is no need for you to take the long trip to your destinations. I am every patch of Darkness in this world. Step into the shadows... and I will take you where you need to go."The Nazgûl hesitated.Iãgaw chuckled. The Darkness around him— the Darkness that was him— surged. "I am hurt. Do you not believe me?" His voice grew mockingly patronizing, and sweetly, icily dangerous. "Tell me, Ringwraith, how did my army of orcs get to the elven realms to quickly, when this little war began only a few hours ago?" All faked patience left the demon and eyes that promised to kill them slowly if they did not obey glowered at the Ringwraiths. "Step into the shadows. Now."Prompted by the warning in the demon's voice, the two Nazgûl stepped into the darkest shadows near the wall. Thick and rippling like black blood, the shadows rose, covering the two before they could cry out. As rapidly as they came the shadows sank, the moving darkness vanishing as if it had never existed.The two Nazgûl were gone.Looking at the spot, the Witch-King felt a mixture of awe and fear. This was a Dark Master worth following! The Nazgûl knew that if his Lord succeeded in his plans, all would be destroyed— including the Ringwraith— but the Void's hold over his servant prevented the Nazgûl from resisting or rebelling. That did not stop him from feeling slight fear and unease around his demonic Master. Still, the best leaders ruled through fear..."Imladris and Lothlorien..." Iãgaw said aloud, focusing his servant's attention on him once more. "Soon the elven sanctuaries will be destroyed. As much as I would love to... visit them, my consciousness can only be in one place at once. And I wish to be elsewhere..." The Void grinned, his shockingly white fangs flashing. "Lindon, the elves' "secret" shipyard. A place of "safety" and "security" that lets elves leave Middle-earth and flee to the Undying Lands..." A shadow crossed his face— literally— and for a moment his eyes were yellow-green slits and his teeth were protruding and jagged like a shark's. "I wonder how the Valar will react when I destroy that refuge."He turned abruptly to the Witch-King, the Nazgûl barely stopping himself from jumping. "You will remain here until I return. Once I do, I have a special task for you.""Yes, my Master." the Witch-King said, bowing low. He paused, recalling something, and looked up. "My Lord, what about—?" Mirkwood. The Nazgûl blinked in confusion as his mouth moved, yet the name did not pass his lips. He tried to speak it again— Mirkwood— but again he remained silent. How was he unable to tell his Master about the elven realm he did not mention?Iãgaw gave him an annoyed look. "If there is something you wish to say, say it." The Nazgûl twitched as the pulling echo entered his Lord's voice."...There is nothing, my Lord." the Witch-King said, for no matter how many times he tried to speak the Woodland Realm's name, it refused to be verbalized.The demon stepped into the darkest shadows and they rose around him, caressing him like black water. When they vanished so did he, leaving Minas Morgul and bringing him far away to his destination. The Ringwraith stared at the spot his Master had been, silent for a long moment."...Mirkwood." he said, able to voice it at last.But the Void was not around to hear him.LOTRLOTRLOTRTo the west of the Shire, not far from the place where the Dark Fire had destroyed the land the hobbits had once called home, shadows came to life beneath a startled tree. Like weightless liquid it twisted and rose, forming a man-like shape. Iãgaw detached himself from his shadows, letting them fall back into their mindless and inanimate state.The Void observed the forest around him with what would have been a joyful expression, if not for the malice in his eyes. He walked beneath the emerald leaves above him, unafraid of the sun, and around him the forest shifted nervously. They knew what he was but could only watch with anxious tension as the demon strode below them, as calm as a man out for a stroll.Iãgaw halted in front of one of the trees, still benign and serene, his red eyes observing the oak with interest. Then he smiled and gently, almost lovingly, reached out and touched its bark.The tree could not even scream. Rapid and relentless, something pulled at its life-force and Light. If it had been a creature of Middle-earth, it would have compared the feeling to something draining all of the blood from its body. The tree struggled against the merciless pull, small bits of itself failing in strength. Small flashes of invisible life-energy and Light were peeled away from the tree, dragged into the eternal Darkness that was the Void.Losing that tiny amount of energy and Light caused the dam to break. The energy rushed out of the tree like a gushing river, flowing into Iãgaw and fading from existence as his Shadows devoured it. The tree could only give a tiny, agonized gasp as the last of its strength left it.Beneath Iagaw's hand, the tree's bark grew gray and brittle. Its emerald leaves blackened, crinkling before turning into dust. The tree's voice vanished, leaving nothing left but a hollow, lifeless shell. Like a tiny candle's flame, its life flickered and died.The Void looked up at the silent, dead tree, and smiled. He stretched out his arms, walking in the forest, and let his Dark, draining aura flare. In less time than it took to blink, all life within fifty yards of him ceased. Trees faded, blackened, and their leaves became dust. A few unlucky animals keeled over, eyes blank and staring, their energy devoured before their knew what had happened. The rustlings and whispers of the forest vanished, leaving only deadly, disquieting silence.Iãgaw lowered his arms and breathed, feeling the light and energy he had absorbed cease to be, thoroughly devoured by his Darkness. "Delicious." he whispered, a soft, satisfied purr.He stepped into the shadows beneath the now-dead tree, and appeared at the edge of the woods. He walked to the edge of the cliff and looked down. Below him was the beach, the sea... and, most importantly, the shipyard.Iãgaw watched the elves walking towards the grey ships that would take them across the sea, spotting the tell-tale colors of Imladris and Lothlorien. He could feel their Light, their wonderful, delightful energy making his hunger, the need to devour, almost uncontrollable.Still, he controlled himself, keeping his mind so that he did not flare his aura and consume their energy all at once. It would not be entertaining or enjoyable if he merely killed them. He had to let them see him, and had to play with them a little before his terminated their existences.He hoped they would fight back, even though few of these elves would have weapons. They were on their way to the Undying Lands, where peace reigned and tools of war and defense were unneeded. Only a few guards carried swords or bows. However, they would be of little use against him.Still, the fools should know better than to think anywhere was absolutely safe. Not even their precious Undying Lands would remain out of his reach for long...It was time to introduce himself. The Void leapt down from the top of the cliff, a few of the elves spotting him and crying out in shock. He landed lightly in a crouch, smirk hidden by his hair, and could only laugh internally as a few of the elves ran towards him, concerned."Are you all right?" one elf asked, and Iãgaw recognized him from his expanse of knowledge as Cirdan, the Shipwright.The demon did not respond, aura carefully contained, hiding all Darkness within him. A hand touched his shoulder and he almost laughed aloud. Could the great, wise Eldar not sense his Darkness? Of course he could not. Only those who were in tune with the life-energies and auras around them would be able to sense him. Iãgaw looked up, hair falling back to reveal his face and eyes, and Cirdan froze."I could kill you all with my aura alone..." the Void mused. "...But that wouldn't be very satisfying."And he moved.Like a man swatting away a bothersome fly, Iãgaw threw the Shipwright back. Not hard enough to kill, only stun. He wanted the Valar's Shipwright to be the last to die. The Void grabbed the closest elf, draining him before he could scream, and callously threw his corpse at his allies. He stepped forward, seeming to vanish he moved so fast, appearing amongst the weaponless elves intent on crossing the sea."Naughty, naughty elves." he told them as they flinched. "You're abandoning Middle-earth... that won't do at all."He resisted the urge to kill them all at once, instead making it a fun little game. As they tried to flee he would grab them and rip their Light and life away, consuming their energy like a hungry warg consumed flesh. Iãgaw let their souls pass on into the afterlife, not concerned about devouring them now. It would only mean he would have more to destroy when he conquered Mandos's Halls... and the souls would also be helpful in creating the special little surprise he had planned for the people of Middle-earth...Some tried to fight him but the moment they were touched their lives became his, because although the lives and Light of elves were large and bountiful, they were still tiny. And they had no defense against the Void's pull.A guard came at him— Oh look, he had a sword— but Iãgaw grabbed him by his throat, lifting him into the air. He watched this one struggle for a moment, sensing the pure and tantalizing Light of an elf that had been in the Undying Lands. The Void studied it for a moment, fascinated, and the choking elf lifted his sword, stabbing hard.The elf's blade plunged into the demon's chest. Iãgaw looked down at the weapon sticking out of his body, then back up at the gasping elf in his grasp. A black eyebrow rose."I'm afraid that isn't going to help you," he said almost chidingly, as if he had caught an elfling trying to steal sweets from the kitchens.His hand clenched and the elf's neck snapped like a twig between his fingers. Iãgaw dropped the deceased creature, his limp body hitting the ground with a thud. Iãgaw casually pulled the sword out of his chest, and the blade was clean, as if it had never touched him. His body was also unharmed, with no sign of the intrusion.Then he frowned, scowling at the dead elf. "I killed you before I could devour your wonderful Light... How unfortunate."He continued the chase, light-footed and faster than any elf could be. Like a graceful, Dark predator he pounced and killed, enjoyment rushing through him as the elves ran, fought, sobbed, and screamed. The bodies were becoming quite numerous, lying peaceful and blank around him. They were unmarked, and if not for the lost glow and the stillness of the elves, one might think that they were all sleeping.On the opposite side, very few were left, and Iãgaw sighed in disappointment. The number of Lights left to devour was dwindling. Not a single elf had made it out of the shipyard's boundaries, the demon being too fast on his feet for even the elves. The Void halted, watching the final few, quailing elves stumble away."I grow bored with this."He focused his power on them, and the immortals collapsed, lives snuffed out without a struggle. Iãgaw looked around him, eyes focusing on the empty ships. His eyes flickered from red to yellow-green and he began to walk towards them. A small gasp made him pause.The demon turned, looking down at Cirdan with delight. "I almost forgot about you." he told the elf, who was struggling to stand.The Void reached down and picked up the Shipwright, hoisting him over his shoulder. The urge to devour, to kill, almost swamped him— this elf's aura was the purest and brightest of them all— but he pushed it away. He continued his trek towards the ships, waiting for what he knew would occur.I am coming Valar, he thought. Look. I have an elf to lead me right to you... Come on. I know what you're going to do...He knew it had happened when Cirdan stiffened in his arms. The elf screamed, an agonized wail that Iãgaw knew was being echoed by many of his kin. The demon turned to look at the Shipwright, the shock, pain, and horror in his eyes amusing the Void greatly. Something within the elf had shattered, or, more specifically, been taken. A thing that had defined him, that had guided him, that had lingered in the back of his mind for as long as he could recall..."Did you feel it?" Iãgaw asked the shaking Shipwright. "Did you feel them take your sea-longing away? The sea-longing within you has vanished. The bond which leads elves to the Undying Lands has been severed. Do you know why?"Iãgaw knew the answer. It was too keep him from using an elf to find the Undying Lands. The Valar's attempt to keep him away was adorable, although taking the sea-longing from the elves was rather cruel. It would not matter in the end, the Void would be able to find the West on his own. But the Valar would be able to live without fear for a while, at least. Middle-earth would be destroyed, before he came to their shores.Yes, Iãgaw knew the answer to his question, but it was more fun to play with the minds of his prey."The answer is quite obvious, elf." the Void whispered in the Shipwright's ear. "The Valar have cut you off from your sanctuary. They have abandoned you. They have left you, and all of Middle-earth, to die."And as his Light was pulled from his body and his spirit fled, Cirdan could only despair. For he knew that not even Mandos's Halls were safe from this monster.The Void was not a being of Darkness: he was Darkness. He was a Darkness that could consume all Light and life, leaving nothing left but Shadows and emptiness. He could not be killed but mundane weapons or even a Valar's blade, for even if he was destroyed, there was always Darkness for him to reform from.The Void was patient, calculating, and cruel. He wanted the world's demise to be agonizing and slow. There was no need to rush, these creatures were insignificant little flies. He would rip off their wings, then their limbs, and would wait as they writhed upon the ground and begged for death. He wanted to be entertained by the small people's struggles to survive, wanted to be amused by their useless hope before he killed them. The Void liked to play, and he would for as long as he wished.But his slow destruction of the world would not bring any relief. Because one day, he would grow bored with watching and massacring little realms. One day, he would grow tired of letting the People of Middle-earth cling to hope. As far as Iãgaw knew, there was no place that was safe from his touch, no place hidden from his sight, no place out of his reach.In the end, the Void would devour all.LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: Okay... I did not realize how freaking CREEPY Iãgaw is until I wrote this chapter. O_O We'll be back to Imladris and Mirkwood next chapter.IMPORTANT NOTE: The idea for "Shattered Reality" (posted back in "Chapter Four: Village By the Sea") has been adopted by RozBen. :DANOTHER IMPORTANT NOTE: An explanation for the above, because I could not use some of the terminology I wanted to: Iãgaw is like an energy-eating black hole. If he lets his power out, he sucks in all the light and life-force around him. It feels like gravity has shifted. Instead of being pulled towards the earth your spirit and energy are dragged towards him. You feel as if you are being ripped apart and crushed at the same time. If he gets hold of you... your life-energies and light are consumed and destroyed. Middle-earth probably wouldn't know about gravity and black holes so I had to play with words in this chapter...Responses to Guest reviews:To "guest 2000": Thank you!To "Guest"(1): Thanks for reviewing!To "Guest"(2): Thank you! That's actually why I did his POV. Half the time he has no idea what's going on. Poor guy.To "Naomi": Thanks!To "Devil Red": Thank you!To "Anony-Mouse": Thank you! I'm glad you liked it so much. You're right, at least it's something. ;)To "mngirl": Thanks for reviewing!To "phoebe": Thank you! Sorry for keeping you waiting.To "Guest": (Chapter twenty-three): Part two is up. If you haven't' read the chapter before this, you might want to go read it... Although if you're down here it might already be too late. :P Its really weird, but sometimes if takes a while for new chapters to show up in certain places...To "Guest"(3): Thanks!To "Guest"(4): Thanks for reviewing! The second part of last chapter was difficult because Legolas has no idea what had happened or what was happening. When the POV is confused like that, sometimes its difficult to get the message across. However, part of the point was that the reader didn't really know what was happening. Things dealing with that will be cleared up in the next couple chapters. :)To "emi": Thank you! You'll see what happens with the Black Arrows. ;)To "Kryst": Thanks! Yeah, poor Elrohir. Imagine waking up to that after falling unconscious! O_O'To "Aisha": Thank you!To "Issy": Thank you! I hope you liked this one as well.To "cool": Thanks!To "Guest"(5): Thanks for reviewing!


********** Page 26 **********

A/N: Yay! Quick update! :DWARNING: Annnnngggggggsssstttt! Dark stuff. Even more cliffhangers... LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Twenty-Five: Radagast's SecretThe hobbits in the Hidden Valley had long ago joined the fight, taking up arms with the same unshakable determination as their elven comrades. Some were wielding elven daggers as swords, others were using whatever they happened to pick up to defend themselves. Kitchen knives, fire pokers, and even a few pans were being used as weapons of war.Alone, the peaceful hobbits would have fallen quickly before the enemies' strength, but they were not alone. They fought together, with their kin and elves alike. As an elf locked blades with an orc, a small, unnoticeable hobbit would sneak in and deliver a blow, either killing or severely wounding their foe.The hobbits could not match the Shadowed Elves' speed and strength, but they did not need to. Instead they defended themselves as well as they could, and assisted where they were needed without being ordered or asked. Hobbits, who had no standing army, who had never seen true war, who had lost so much to the Darkness, fought against it with a bravery and strength few possessed.These were Elrohir's thoughts as war was waged in the Halls of Healing, the enemy making it deep into the once-safe Last Homely House. It was only him, his father, a few warriors, Bilbo Baggins, and two hobbits he did not know in the Hall, defending the wounded as the orcs attempted to invade the room. Among the unconscious were Erestor and Glorfindel, the latter's reason for unawareness known to the twin but the former's still a mystery. There had been no time to exchange information or explain what had happened to one another. The orcs and Shadowed Elves had come too quickly for that.Thus the son of Elrond found himself standing just inside the door to the Halls of Healing with Bilbo and an elf he did not recognize— Valar, this one was not even a warrior!— at his side, killing foe after foe as they tried to force their way inside. It was taxing, both physically and mentally, and Elrohir could only hope that he would last a while longer before his strength ran out. It was not the battle that was taking its toll on him, but the mental struggle that threatened to pull him under.He was changed. Mere hours ago, before all of this chaos began, he had been laughing and speaking with his two brothers when everything had become skewed. The world had shifted, a wave of Darkness sweeping over it. The force and power of the evil that had appeared out of nowhere had overwhelmed Elrohir, forcing him into unconsciousness. And when he awoke, everything was different.He did not know how, he did not know why, but somehow his sixth sense— his ability to sense auras— had been heightened. Before, he had only had a vague sense of the presences around him, but now, they were like voices screaming in his ears and lights blazing in his eyes. The auras of orcs, which had been mere whispers of warning trickling down his spine, were now clawed hands around his throat, choking him. The orc's presences were overwhelming him, but even worse had been the auras of the Shadowed Elves.The Shadowed Elves...Even though they had left the Hidden Valley, leaving it for the orcs to finish off and retreating out of his heightened sense's range, the memory of their presences plagued Elrohir like a physical illness. Their auras made him feel like he was trapped with a rotting corpse, unable to escape the terrible smell and horror of it. The Shadowed Elves felt like Darkness, emptiness, disease, bloodlust, rage... all things associated with evil and death, promising nothing but suffering and pain.Elrohir, a warrior and proud son of Elrond, had wanted to curl up into a ball and sob like an elfling when he had first experienced the Shadowed Elves' rancid auras. Only the sense of the bright, blazing presence that a Shadowed Elf had been bearing down on had kept him from doing so. The instinct to protect the Light presence from the rancid-evil-tainted aura had been enough for the twin to race to the source... only to find Glorfindel about to be murdered by Liphen.If he had not been able to sense that the Balrog Slayer was in danger...The twin shook his head to clear it of thoughts on the past, focusing on killing orcs. He ignored his overpowered sixth sense as best he could, gripping his sword tightly in an attempt to keep himself in the physical world. It did not help that he could sense every vanishing presence— every death— and the terrible fading energy of the dying...He just had to last a little longer. Just a little longer. He could not collapse again. He could not let the energies around him force him to leave consciousness behind. But it was just so much. Life and death swirled around him like a raging storm, pulling at his attention like an agonized scream. How did Esgal stand it?Elrohir blocked an orc's axe with his blade, and Bilbo stabbed it in the chest with the kitchen knife he was wielding like a sword. A carefully-aimed arrow flew past the twin's head, hitting another invader in the eye. The elven warrior— Rainor— put another arrow to his bow, pulled back, released. Another orc died, but another arrow was used, the supply of the projectiles rapidly diminishing.They could not even close the door, for the wood had been forced off its hinges by the first wave of attackers. The only thing that told Elrohir that the fighters outside had not perished was the bright, pure energies he could sense still fighting outside. Yet even though their defense of this room was holding, the elf knew that they would not be able to last forever. And in here, they were essentially trapped.At least they were only fighting orcs now, not their Shadowed kin. As he stabbed his sword into an enemy and jerked it free, pushing the dead creature back onto its allies, Elrohir felt a growing sense of unease. Why had the Shadowed Elves left? Why hadn't they remained to finish what they started—?The elf fighting beside Elrohir cried out in pain as an orc's sword struck his shoulder. He fell back, leaving the twin and Bilbo alone, and the delicate balance they had been upholding shattered. The orcs surged forward, flooding into the Halls of Healing.Elrond was barely able to shout "Protect the wounded!" before the harsh battle began. The dark-haired elf slashed at an orc, stabbed another, spun and lopped off a third's head. With quick, deadly movements he attacked, for there was no time to pause, not even for an instant. The enemies swarmed around them like a raging river, only constant movement keeping them all alive.He thrust his blade into an orc's face, gave a hard diagonal slash to kill another foe. He struck with a booted foot, strong enough to snap an orc's leg with the blow, and cut it in half with a powerful sideways swipe. His senses were on fire, fear, protectiveness, and rage flooding his system. He hoped this new strength would last a while longer, but also knew it would not be long before he burned out completely.He spotted an orc approaching Glorfindel's bed, the defenders around him too busy to assist the helpless Balrog Slayer. With a savage curse Elrohir sprang at the orc, blade held in both hands as he plunged it through the armor and into the orc's chest. He missed the heart, a mistake made obvious when the orc pulled itself off his blade, coming after this new threat. What, were they immune to pain now along with the sun?It was only when he spotted the special mark on the orc's armor. It was a Berserker. Unaware of its pain, the Berserker bellowed in rage, intent on its new target. Elrohir hastily blocked a blow and another, cursing himself for missing the kill-strike that would have taken this dangerous enemy out. All warriors learned that killing Berserkers instantly was essential. If you did not, they would attack with a single-minded bloodlust that put wargs to shame. Elrohir stabbed again, hitting the shoulder.No—!He saw the Berserker raising its sword in his peripheral vision and lashed out with his hand, hitting the creature solidly in the gap between its armor-plates. It howled and dropped its sword, and Elrohir yanked his own blade free. With a cry he beheaded the Berserker, watching it fall with relief. A moan made him turn in time to see Glorfindel sit up, looking around in horrified bewilderment before his bright blue eyes hardened."Glorfindel!" Elrohir gasped. "Thank the Valar you're awa—"There was the sound of a sword plunging into flesh. Elrohir froze, eyes wide, as he felt blood spray over his back. The orc that had been sneaking up behind him died before he could strike, and before the elf could register that one of the evil presences around him was closer than was safe. As the orc fell, Glorfindel scowled at the orc blade he now wielded— there had been no extra elven blades within reach.His blue eyes transferred to Elrohir. "I'm all right. Keep fighting!"And they did. Desperately they fought, somehow managing to survive because even though the door was open and the enemy had come inside, the hall outside the Hall of Healing was thin and prevented large group of enemies from invading all at once. Yet as more and more enemies came, Elrohir could only pray that his two brothers were still alive somewhere out there.One of the hobbits— not Bilbo— was killed, and an unconscious patient— not Erestor— was murdered as he lay oblivious to the world. Elrohir could not even track his father or any of his allies in the warzone the Halls of Healing had become. It was all too fast. Things were happening too fast—!A sickening presence— more terrible and horrifying than even the Shadowed Elves'— entered Elrohir's awareness. It crept over him like fire ants on his skin, making him shiver. Confusion overcame him as he stared at the empty spot that the Dark aura was coming from. There was nothing there, yet it was coming from there, and it seemed to be getting stronger.The shadows moved and Elrohir's breath hitched. He watched with wide eyes as the darkness rose like a liquid, forming a humanoid shape. Out of the shadows— literally— stepped a black-cloaked figure. He did not need to sense the rotting, corpse-like presence he could clearly feel in order to know what had come to Imladris.It was a Nazgûl. But that was not what made the elf's limbs freeze in terror.In the Ringwraith's hand was a torch, the yellow-green flames of Dark Fire flickering powerfully at the end of the Dark material that kept it lit. In an eye-blink Elrohir knew the enemy's plan, why the Shadowed Elves had retreated, why the orcs were now fleeing, having spotted the Ringwraith as well. Without a word passing between them the few elves and hobbits grabbed the wounded and fled the Halls of Healing, running for their very lives.Behind them, the Nazgûl dropped the torch, and the Dark Fire roared into an inferno.LOTRLOTRLOTR"Ada! Ada!"Thranduil looked up from the document he had been browsing, smiling as his youngest son raced into his office. Seeing he had his father's attention, the five year-old clambered onto the Elvenking's lap, looking at him with bright silver-blue eyes."What do you need, Little Greenleaf?" Thranduil questioned his son, who shifted and twitched with boundless energy.Legolas bounced excitedly, filled with the energy only the young could possess. "I have a question to ask you, Ada! It's very important." His attempted mature and serious tone was ruined when he grew interested in a knot in the Elvenking's desk, poking it with a finger curiously.Thranduil's lips twitched as he watched his son. With Legolas, what could be considered "important" ranged from what they were having for dinner to a question about an interesting bug he had discovered in the garden. "All right, Little Leaf. What is your important question?"Legolas opened his mouth, closed it, and frowned. "...I forgot, Ada."The golden-haired elf chuckled and ruffled his son's hair, becoming more amused as the little one pouted in annoyance. "Don't worry about it, ion-nin. You will remember eventually."The elfling paused, deep in thought, and brightened considerably. "Ada! Ada!" He said, pulling at the Sindar's sleeve to make sure that his father's attention remained on him. "I remember now, Ada!"Thranduil hid his smile behind his hand. "Well, that was quick, wasn't it? Go on, ask me your question."The elfling smiled and sat up as straight as he could so he could speak into his father's ear."Why did you give up on me, Ada?" he whispered.Thranduil froze, and when he looked down his son was no longer in his arms. The Elvenking looked around, frantic, and spotted Legolas standing in the doorway. The joy and smiles were gone from the elfling's face, and when he looked at his father his silver-blue eyes were hard and cold. Legolas laughed, and there was no happiness in it. Instead his laugh was empty and harsh."Isn't it funny, Ada? I forgot my question earlier, just like you forgot me."Thranduil's hands began to shake but he could not think of why. His son was in front of him, he was fine and safe, so why was a great feeling of horror and guilt clenching around the Sindar's heart?"No." the golden-haired elf croaked, standing up and reaching towards his son. "No, Little Leaf. I would never forget you."He blinked and his son was gone once more. The King turned in a circle, panicking, then spotted him in the corner of the office this time. Legolas stood with his arms crossed, leaning casually against the wall in a way that did not fit the elfling's personality. Emotionless silver-blue eyes glared at him."Liar. You did forget me. You did give up on me. You left me in Dol Guldur!""No..." Thranduil whispered but his son ignored him."You were told I was dead by an orc and you believed it!" the Lost Prince screamed. "And before then you did not even try to come and rescue me! I waited for you to save every single night but you never came! You never came! You abandoned me! You left me to pain and suffering and Darkness!"The Elvenking could not speak, only able to mutely shake his head in denial. Silver-blue eyes that were too old for the young face they belonged to stared coldly at the Sindar, filled with rage and pain."I hate you." the elfling whispered. "I hate you! I will never forgive you! I hate you I hate you I hate you!"And that final shout was not spoken in the voice of a little elfling, but that of an angry, vengeful elf. Legolas sprang at him, seeming to grow into adulthood an instant, but Thranduil could not tear his gaze away from his son's merciless silver-blue eyes. His face became indistinct, his body vague and indecipherable, but as the Lost Prince halted just in front of the Elvenking, Thranduil could not help but feel this shadowy elf was familiar."Die." a flat, icy, adult voice whispered in his ear, and a flicker of light off a knife-blade caught his eye.Eyes filled with hatred and scorn, Legolas stabbed the Elvenking in the chest......And Thranduil woke up screaming.Through his cries he could hear voices speaking to him, but at first he could not understand what they said. Confusion and terror made him struggle against the hands that held him down, screaming and desperate to escape the lingering presence of the nightmare."My Lord!" a familiar voice was calling to him. "Thranduil! It is all right! You are among friends!"Slowly, the words registered, and Thranduil's screams died in his throat. He opened his eyes to the Halls of Healing, breathing sharp and rapid even as he slowly calmed. The blurry shapes around the Elvenking became focused, and he found Tollui, Nestor the healer, and Radagast to be leaning over him. The Sindar sat up, forcing them to retreat slightly, eyes roaming over the familiar hall, flicking over his fellow patients. His heartbeat sped up once more, panic again taking hold."What happened?" he demanded, rising from his bed and striding to the one beside his.It contained Fael, and five in five others lay his other children. All were unconscious or deeply asleep, their eyes closed and their skin pale."They are all right, my Lord." Nestor was quick to reassure the elf. "They merely collapsed when you did.""As I...?"Memory slammed into Thranduil with the force of an oliphaunt, and he remembered everything. The Chant, the change in the forest, the Void, the powerful Darkness, Legolas...Legolas."He's alive." Thranduil whispered. "He's alive."Tollui looked decidedly uncomfortable. "My Lord... The Lost Prince is—""Alive." Radagast said. "Eight Royals were needed to Awaken the Sanctuary of Mirkwood, and complete the Chant eight Royals did.""I cannot believe it." The Elvenking said, still in shock. "After all this time... my youngest is alive." He remembered his dream and his happiness dimmed. "We gave up on him. All this time he has been alone..."His eyes roamed over his children— who he knew would be as joyful as he when they awoke— and paused on the sixth filled bed, one he had not noticed before. Again, concern became his primary emotion and he hurried to the patient, placing a hand on his forehead."Esgal?"The violet-eyed elf remained unmoving and unresponsive, even more pale and sickly-looking than the recovering Royals. His breathing was steady but sharp, and his forehead was cool to the touch."He is fine as well." Radagast told the Sindar. "I found him unconscious in the forest, almost dead. It is my belief that the rush of Darkness caused by Iãgaw's coming, and the Chant's Awakening of the Sanctuary, affected Esgal greatly. The surge of Darkness, then of Light energy hit him one right after the other, overwhelming him and forcing him so deep within himself that he almost faded. Luckily I found him in time to pull him back..."Thranduil nodded absently, too shocked by the realization that Legolas was alive and too concerned by his children and Esgal's states to truly listen to the Istar. Tollui, however, was being much more observant than his King."Sanctuary? Iãgaw? Chants? What are you talking about, Aiwendil?" the adviser wanted to know.The Elvenking looked away from Esgal, eyes becoming alert and a frown forming on his face. "I remember the Chant, and I know that a great Darkness called 'the Void' has come to Middle-earth." Thranduil spotted a mixture of grief, worry, and heavy knowledge in the Brown Wizard's eyes. His frown deepened. "You know something. You know what has happened, and you know why. Aiwendil..."The Istar shifted on his feet, avoiding his eyes. He looked nervous and uncomfortable, but Thranduil refused to let his glare cease."Aiwendil, please." he said, half-requesting, half-demanding answers. "If you know anything about this threat and what has occurred, now is the time to share it."The Brown Wizard's gaze moved over the patients in the bed before returning to the Elvenking. "Yes... I suppose that now is the time."Something in the Istar changed then, a quiet grimness entering his visage. He suddenly seemed less goofy, more solemn and wise, looking more like a Wizard than he ever had. For a moment he just stood there in contemplative silence, brow furrowed and eyes dark. The three conscious elves around him waited patiently for him to speak."Why was I sent to Middle-earth?" Radagast asked suddenly, not quite making it a question. He turned to look at Thranduil, eyes more intense than the Elvenking had ever seen them. "Why me? I am not the strongest Istari, nor the smartest or bravest. Other than Gandalf, Saruman, and the two Blue Wizards, there were many Istar that could have gone that would be more powerful than I, and would be better choices to assist in the fight against Sauron. I have done nothing large in the fight against Sauron, and am not capable of doing so. So why did Yavanna insist that I come along?"Sensing that the questions were rhetorical, the elves remained silent.The Brown Wizard stepped forward, no longer goofy or scatterbrained, but calm and eerily grim. "The truth is, Yavanna did not. I was sent here, not because of Yavanna but because of Lorien. He was the one who told Yavanna to send me to Middle-earth along with the others. Both knew that I loved the forest and the animals and would become attached to them, and also knew that I would be almost useless in the grand fight against Sauron... but that was the point. I was not sent here to fight Sauron. I was sent to Middle-earth to fight Iãgaw, although 'fight' is not quite the right word.""My mission was to set up defenses against the Void. You asked how I knew about him, the Chant, and the Sanctuary Mirkwood has become. I know because I helped lay down the magic and power that is now shielding your people. My purpose was to protect this small piece of Middle-earth from a monster that we were unsure even existed. Not even the other Istari knew of this. In fact, none had even heard of Iãgaw. None except me.""I was chosen not for my power, not for my skills or mind, but because I loved Middle-earth. I was chosen because I was underestimated, unnoticeable, and few would believe that I had been tasked with setting up impenetrable defenses for a realm, to protect it from a demon that— if he was even real— was capable of obliterating everything. Yes, I know what Iãgaw is, what he wants, and a few of his powers. Everything Lorien knew about the coming of the Void and his powers he told me, so that I in turn could tell you if he ever awoke.""And it was a large 'if'." The Istar began to pace. "The circumstances that would cause Iãgaw to be freed were so specific, the chances of him being released so miniscule, that I was sent merely to set up safeguards, and to not tell anyone about them or the Void. My purpose was to be here, just in case. Just in case Iãgaw did rise, and the Sanctuary of Mirkwood was Awakened. I do not know all Lorien knew about Iãgaw— A way to defeat him, if one exists, was kept from me— but I know enough to tell you what to expect and why certain things have occurred.""I can tell you why Mirkwood was chosen as the Last Sanctuary, why the Royal Family was able to Awaken it with a Chant, why the Shadowed trees are on your side— I know you can sense their new intent— yet have traits of Darkness within them...""Just like the circumstances for Iãgaw to be released were specific, so were the ones to create a Sanctuary— One Sanctuary— that would be able to defend against him. It required too much power and cooperation from the earth itself to create more than one such Sanctuary, so making one was what the Valar and I did. The first requirement was that it had to be an elven realm. Out of all of the Free People, the elves are the most Light and magical, a bond with nature in their blood. Which brings me to the second requirement: The elves within the realm must love Middle-earth, and not long for the sea like their Noldor kin. They had to want to stay here, live here, and even die for this world.""Another necessity for the Chant to take hold was for the realm to not be protected by a Ring of Power. It had to be defended by its people's own strength, and its trees needed to know war, hardship, and Darkness. For it is only something with an understanding of Darkness that can truly defend against it. That is why I did not worry when the Shadow fell over this land. When a body is struck by disease, it learns about the enemy inside it, casts it out, and when it tries to invade once more, the body can more easily defend. Sometimes, it is even immune.""The Darkness within the Shadowed trees is Darkness, yet it is not. It is traces of a disease that is no longer harmful. It is like a whisper or disguise of a different type of Darkness, like the natural, dormant Darkness of night. It is not evil or connected to the Void like all other Darkness. It is merely there, a weapon and a shield for this realm and the trees..." Radagast trailed off, mind far away.Thranduil looked into the Wizard's piercing eyes, silently urging him to continue.He did. "The last specific requirement to wake the power that now protects us, and the one that was the hardest to achieve... was your family, Elvenking. The Royal Family. Your bonds with this land are greater than you know, much greater. Your line of Kings dates back to the First Age. Eight elves of Royal blood was the final requirement to Awaken the Sanctuary. One for the North, one for the East, one for the South, one for the West. One for the North-East, one for the North-West, one for the South-East, one for the South-West. One for each direction the Chant must spread. Leave one out and the Sanctuary would be incomplete like an unfinished compass, a gaping hole left that would let the enemy through.""Powers of Arda, hold back this Darkness. Protect this Kingdom with tree, wind, water, stone. We feel the Void, the devourer of Arda. We ask for Sanctuary, protect our forest home! Arda, safeguard us, lend us your power. So when He seeks us He will not find. Hide us from the eyes that make most cower. And the reach of His Evil bind. Air, protect us, shield us from His sight. Stone, remain our anchor, not our enemy. Trees, preserve us, and seal our borders tight. Water, defend us, lash out against all Dark you see. Arda, protect us, our People, Souls, and Light!" He spoke in Westron but echoes of power whispered through his voice. "The words of that Chant are powerful, each one chosen by Lorien himself to Awaken the Sanctuary. With this Chant Mirkwood is shielded from Iagaw's sight. It is erased from the Void's memories. None can even speak the Woodland Realms' name to him... Lorien and the Valar who believed in the threat of Iãgaw were very thorough in creating the Sanctuary. If the Void did exist and did become free, they wanted to be sure that there was a place of safety for the people he would terrorize.""For many years after I arrived in this land I was complacent, because in all that time there were only seven Royals. You, and your six children made seven, for though Luineth was your Queen she was not of Royal blood. Then, Legolas was born, and I realized that the circumstances that seemed so unreachable may not be as impossible as I presumed. Even when the Lost Prince was presumed dead I did not lose vigilance again. I checked on the dormant powers that would Awaken the Sanctuary, checked to make sure that the moment Iãgaw escaped that power would reach out to you. For if it did not, Iãgaw would find this place, and no land would be safe from his Darkness. That did not come to be, thank the Valar. You, your children, and your connection to this world succeeded in making the Woodland Realm into a place that the Void could never invade, and would not even remember.""However, even dormant, the magic had affects on the land even before it was Awakened. As you very well know, there are no Shadowed Elves within Mirkwood. Not a single one, despite the loss, Darkness, and horrors that plagued this realm. Even in a dormant state, the Sanctuary protected the elves here, preventing the Void from infecting them with Darkness. The only Shadowed Elves here were ones that traveled here from other realms, for although the sleeping Sanctuary could protect those that lived within it, it was not powerful enough in that state to eradicate the Void from the Shadowed Elves. It is already too late for them now, so we will never know if the Shadow would have been purged from them had the Shadowed Elves been in Mirkwood when the Sanctuary Awakened..."Radagast settled into a chair at Esgal's bedside, looking at the unconscious elf as if he were not really seeing him. "Before Lorien even began to tell me about his plans to place countermeasures against the Void, he told me to never speak of Iãgaw or my true mission to anyone. If any had learned about the Sanctuary or that demon, the results would have been disastrous. If things had gone the way many assumed that they would, Sauron would be the Dark threat. The Ring would have been destroyed, and Iãgaw would be unable to get out of his prison. Then, all information on him and the Sanctuary would be unneeded and useless. So, like Lorien ordered me to, I stood by, said nothing, and waited.""But even I was unprepared when the Witch-King awoke his true Master. I, like all of you, assumed he was the servant of Sauron. I never even considered that Iãgaw was powerful enough where he was to break the Dark Lord's hold on his Nazgûl. There was no time to take preventative measures or warn you about the inevitable rise of Iãgaw. I only knew what had happened when I felt the Chant take hold of you and your seven children. So here we are, at the beginning of the final battle... and perhaps the end of the world as we know it."The Istar fell silent, eyes not moving from Esgal's still form. He seemed to be watching the young elf breath, as if he felt calmed by the slow, steady sign of life."Indeed." Thranduil whispered, still trying to take it all in.Things were happening so quickly. Just the day before his greatest worry had been Sauron rising. Now, instead of that, he had a worse Darkness to face, his realm had become the only place that was safe from said Darkness, and it turned out that his youngest son was alive...Thranduil swallowed, hard. "Radagast, Lorien informed you of many things having to do with the Void, and you have kept many secrets. You are deeply involved in the magic of the Chant, and sensed when it Awakened and changed this forest. You said you could feel the power of the Chant take hold of us... Do you know where my son is?"As the last word left his mouth a deafening silence fell over the room. The elf looked at the Istar, with an expression that was a wrenching mix of hope, fear, and pleading."I'm sorry."Radagast did not look away from Esgal, eyes dark and distant."I'm afraid... that Prince Legolas Thranduilion remains lost."LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: I bet you didn't see that coming. I hope Radagast isn't too OOC... I also hope I was able to explain things properly. If you have questions, just ask me. :)There was too much that needs to happen in order to wrap up the Lothlorien and Rivendell fights to put it all this chapter, and the dropped torch ending was actually the only place I could cut it off without absolute abruptness... Sorry?Thanks to everyone who reviewed! And a special thank you to L.J. Gryphon for helping me with certain future details and becoming an adviser of sorts. ;) Responses to Guest reviews:To "TiTaN": Thank you!To "Naomi": Thanks! A Royal Family member finds out before the others, and not that far in the future...To "Beautiful" Thanks! No, Glorfindel's fine.To "yue-chan": Thank you! Elrohir was a "sensor" before, if you recall. Elladan was not. That's all. :)To "Anony-Mouse": Thanks! Yes, Iãgaw is rather terrifying. O_OTo "Guest": Thank you!To "emi': Thank you! Your questions about Mirkwood were answered this chapter. :) You'll see what happens with Saruman soon.To "Nadarhem": Thank you! It's awesome that you think Iãgaw is such a good villain. The guy scares me. Seriously. All the ideas for him and what he was like came to me a little at a time, but when I put them together, my thoughts changed from "I guess I have a pretty bad guy" to "Holy shit this guy freaks me out OMG!" or something along those lines. I actually started crying and gaping at the screen when I wrote out the scene with the elves. I was like "Oh my gosh is he actually killing all these people?!" Although I suppose that Iãgaw is a demon, so of course he's going to be majorly freaky... I would respond to your account, but I had already started writing all this when I remembered you had one. Oops. At least I'm responding?To "Calenlassiel": Thank you! I hope that Thranduil waking up to realize his son is alive is enough lightness and hope for you. The only problem with writing consecutive chapters with the apocalypse pretty much happening is that there is little chance to bring hope into the chapters.To "bananafinn": Thanks!Please review!


********** Page 27 **********

Chapter Twenty-Six: Dark FireFire is a dangerous thing.Capable of bringing both comfort and destruction, it is cherished and hated with equal measure. To a weary traveler it brings warmth on a cold night, but to a forest it could only bring grief and death. Like all things in nature, fire was capable of great good and great evil, saving and ruining lives every day. But that was the law of nature. All things were to be in balance, in equal measures of gain and loss. Few things could be completely good or absolutely evil, and if something was it was either unnatural or there was an opposite power to balance it out.However, even in the best of days, bad tends to outweigh good. Because of the nature of evil, it was more easily attained and created. Darkness was inherently more powerful, because it, in essence, had no morals. While a creature of good may think twice about sacrificing lives, evil did not even think about the ones they thought were meaningless.This Darkness, this evil nature, was only meant for "sentient" beings, beings with their own thoughts and agendas. Evil was not meant to take the form of "silent" nature, the types of nature like water and air that may have a "voice" to some but were, in truth, silent.Fire was not meant to be evil.And yet Dark Fire was.It did not provide warmth, light, or comfort. It was not calm and controllable like natural fire was. Dark fire was the product of the Darkest of magics, created solely for the purpose of spreading death and despair. It could not be put out by water and could not be contained by stone. It burned through everything it touched, leaving it scarred and lifeless, not caring about the lives it took or the chaos it wrought.Dark Fire's purpose was to destroy and consume. It was a mindless monster and weapon that cared not who it hurt, eating and eating until it wore itself out.And now, it was devouring Rivendell.Flames, yellow-green in color and sickening to the eye, burned around Aragorn, filling him with fear. Not caring about the orcs fleeing around him, he focused on running, Boromir and Elladan at his side. The battle with the orcs had come to an abrupt end as fire raced through the Last Homely House, this new enemy to both sides making all drop their weapons and run for their lives.Smoke clouded the sky above and flames crackled loudly as they ate through wood and stone. Aragorn choked on the blackened air, coughing as he covered his mouth with his hand. His eyes stung and he could barely see a few feet in front of him, but he dare not slow. The harsh crackling and cracking of the flames around them kept all recklessly moving forward.A hand grasped his shoulder and a cloth was pressed into his hand. Aragorn could not even nod his thanks to Elladan as he put the cloth over his mouth and nose, the fabric doing a little to help him breath. He could not even pinpoint their location within the burning buildings, and could only hope they could make it outside before the flames cut off their escape. Everything was unrecognizable. All around them was nothing but fire."Go left," Elladan croaked, voice rasping and painful.Trusting the elf, both men turned left, passing through what appeared to be a doorway. This hall was not as bad as the one they had just exited, small fires just beginning to climb up the walls. The three ran full-pelt down the hall, the tapestries on the hall catching ablaze.Aragorn gave a yell as the wall to their right exploded, the rocks bursting apart from the heat. He shielded his face with his arm, small pieces of stone burning through his clothes and hitting his skin. Small pinpricks of pain assaulted the limb but the man ignored them, glancing at his companions. Both were standing, but Boromir had a small gash on his forehead. The man was coughing heavily but gestured to show that they needed to keep moving.They continued to run, dodging small fires and keeping as low to the ground as they could in an attempt to breathe in less smoke. A distant, thunderous crash sounded, the earth-shaking beneath their feet, and Aragorn instinctively knew that a building had collapsed. The door in front of them— the exit— had flames licking at its bottom, the yellow-green fire blocking their way out."We have to jump!" Boromir gasped, interrupted by a bout of frantic coughing.The other two nodded in response, sprinting towards the door without slowing. One... Two... Three... Now! One after the other they leapt over the flames, Aragorn feeling the agonizing heat searing his skin. He landed on the path outside, stumbling, and heat ripped down his back.With a strangled curse the Ranger removed his cloak, the blazing material swallowed swiftly by the cursed fire. Elladan grabbed his hand, yanking him further away from the building. They were still not safe, the city burning around them. Their bodies protesting and their lungs screaming in pain, the three joined the others that had escaped the initial blaze.Elladan paused for a moment, head snapping around, and a relieved expression crossed his face. Aragorn followed his gaze and spotted his father, Elrohir, Bilbo, Lindir, and Glorfindel close behind them. While sooty, pale, and coughing, none were sporting burns or other injuries. Even Erestor, who lay unconscious in the Balrog Slayer's arms, was untouched by the flames.Others were not so lucky. Distant screams reached Aragorn's ears and he shut his eyes, resisting the urge to cover his ears to block them out. Because they could not go back in for others. They could not even attempt a rescue. As if to mockingly emphasize on his thoughts, another building crumbled, giving way as the Dark Fire devoured it.Elrond rushed up to his other sons and Boromir, giving each a quick scan for injuries with his eyes. The Elf Lord, eyes streaming from the smoke and ash, opened his mouth and attempted to speak, only to give in to a coughing fit. He gestured with his hand, pointing frantically in the direction of the bridge that led out of the Hidden Valley. Aragorn nodded to show he understood and ran to the front of the group of escapees."Follow." he rasped, voice barely heard over the crackling flames.And follow the elves and hobbits of Rivendell did, coughing, gasping, and stumbling as the Hidden Valley burned around them. Aragorn knew that the woods were safe for now, but a sharp wind would be enough to spread the fire out of the forest. They had to get out of here, out of the entire realm, for if they did not they would be doomed to burn.The Ranger spotted the bridge up ahead and despair claimed his heart. Behind him, a few of the elves cursed or sobbed, for their only way out was up in flames. Literally. Fire danced along the bridge that led to the city, none able to pass. As Aragorn watched an orc tried to leap over the flames and to safety, failing as the fire took hold on his body. Other orcs were leaping off of the edge of the cliff, into the water, but the distance was too far and when they hit the liquid it was like hitting stone.The elves and hobbits did not try anything so hopeless, staying trapped between a rock and a hard place. More specifically, between fire and flames. The fire behind them roared, the one in front crackled, and Aragorn stood in frozen silence as his father, brothers, and Boromir came to his side. Glorfindel appeared as well, still carrying Erestor, eyes wild as he looked at the flames and great fear in his eyes. This had to be his worst nightmare come to life.What do we do? Aragorn thought desperately, staring at his family, fearing for their lives. What do we do?Suddenly, Elrohir looked up, eyes wide with alarm and slight confusion. The Ranger beside him felt a glimmer of terror as he recalled his brother's amplified ability to sense presences. Was a new, terrible enemy coming to finish them off? Then hope blossomed across the younger twin's features, like clouds giving way to the sun, and he pointed at the sky, almost physically leaping in joy. A familiar, shrieking cry reached Aragorn's ears and the man almost froze in shock.For half a second he thought he was hallucinating, but then Gwaihir appeared through the smoke. More Eagles followed, flying strongly despite the smoke in the air. When they landed, a few dealt harsh blows to the orcs that tried to swarm them, clawing them mercilessly and sending them flying into oblivion. The Wind Lord landed next to Elrond, feathers ruffling as he observed the flames."Quickly!" he said to the elves, two men, and hobbits, who were staring at the Eagles like they could not quite believe they were there. "My kin and I will carry you. We can each carry two elves or three hobbits!"There was no more hesitation, the survivors climbing onto their unexpected saviors' backs. With powerful beats of their wings the Eagles took off, flying high into the sky, above the smoke and flames that devoured the Hidden Valley. On Gwaihir with his father, Aragorn took in a breath of fresh air, lungs still stinging from the tainted air below. The man coughed and Elrond turned to him, concern in his eyes."I'm fine." Aragorn said.Elrond nodded then leaned forward, talking loudly to Gwaihir though his voice was hoarse and strained. "Thank you for helping us, Lord Gwaihir.""The Eagles only did what needed to be done," the Wind Lord said calmly. "We would not leave the elves of Imladris to die. We saw the flames and sensed the Darkness that came to your land, and came as quickly as we could. I apologize that we did not arrive sooner.""You arrived soon enough," the Elf Lord said. "Many lives were saved by you this day, and we elves are in your debt. May I ask where are you taking us? I need to help those who will have trouble from breathing in the smoke.""We will land once we pass over the Misty Mountains." Gwaihir said. "However, once you help your kin and neighbors we must fly again. The Eagles will take you to Mirkwood.""Mirkwood?" Elrond asked. "But what of Lothlorien?""Lothlorien has fallen, as did Lindon." Gwaihir explained darkly. "Only Mirkwood remains. And now it is the only safe place left in the world.""Lothlorien and Lindon are gone?" Elrond whispered shakily. "Do you know if my daughter and the Lord and Lady are all right?"Aragorn swallowed hard, fear rising in him. Surely Arwen and the others had escaped? Lothlorien was not as cut off as the Hidden Valley, there was room to run through the trees. Surely they had made it out alive...?For a heart-stopping moment the Eagle did not answer. Then he spoke. "...I sense that they had more luck escaping the Dark Fire than you did. The mallorn trees managed to keep a clear path through the flames, allowing for the Galadrim to escape. Unless they perished in the fight, your family there still live." Gwaihir told him. "They too will head to Mirkwood, where all must go if they hope to be safe..."The Wind Lord refused to answer any more questions, and the elf and man on his back did not press him. Instead they sat in silence, focusing on breathing fresh air and warding off the exhaustion that tried to claim them.Below them, abandoned and unable to be saved, Imladris burned.LOTRLOTRLOTRIn the office of the Elvenking of Mirkwood, there was a tense silence in the air. Thranduil was sitting at his desk. Aglar was pacing across the room. Megilag was sitting in a chair, staring blankly into space. Barhad was beside him, head in his hands. Hannel hovered near the door, eyes red-rimmed and puffy from crying. Bereneth was next to her, a storm cloud to her rain, expression tight and angry. And Fael was sitting on the floor— yes, the floor— with a terribly lost expression on his face.None of them spoke, all retreating into their own thoughts. The knowledge they had woken with both liberated and subdued them, though it was not the threat of Iãgaw that concerned them now. All of them were thinking about something much more important, and decidedly more precious."We are such fools." Shockingly, it was quiet, soft-spoken Barhad who said these words. The older twin did not raise his head as they all looked at him, hands still pressed over his face as he mumbled into them. "We should have known. If he had been tortured and killed, the Nazgûl would have taunted us by showing his body."His voice shook but he carried on resolutely. "They would have shown us what they had done, not sent an orc to tell us. But they did not. They did not do what would have shattered our spirits and possibly killed us all from grief. We should have known that they were lying!""Legolas had been lost for eighty years," Aglar murmured, still pacing. "We were barely clinging to hope, hope that was illogical and almost gone. There was such little chance that he would last a month there without being killed, let alone eighty years. Most likely the Witch-King was keeping him alive as a hostage of sorts. He let us despair that our Little Leaf was in his clutches and could do nothing to save him. Adar..."The Crown Prince glanced at his father before continuing. "...was fading from grief, and if he fell we all would have followed. Perhaps the Witch-King thought that telling us Legolas had been tortured and murdered would push us over the edge?""Why then?" Megilag questioned, pale and solemn. "Why eighty years after his capture?"The Royal Family mulled over this, struggling to think of a reason why that particular day."Maybe he was getting tired of waiting for us to die?" Bereneth offered, sounding slightly bitter."Perhaps." Now Fael spoke, a deep frown in place of his usual mischievous grin. "I'm more concerned about finding out where Little Leaf is now.""Little Leaf must still be a prisoner." Hannel surmised, unshod tears in her eyes. "If he had somehow escaped, he would have come home. He was old enough to remember us, no matter how many years had passed since his capture."Barhad breathed in sharply, drawing all attention to him once more. His eyes were wide with horror and fear. "That day, eighty years after Little Leaf's capture, weren't the Witch-King and the other Nine spotted leaving Dol Guldur, most likely heading for Minas Morgul?""Yes..." Aglar answered his brother, remembering the warrior's report on the incident.The older twin's fists clenched on his tunic, his hands visibly trembling. "Could the warrior see if each Nazgûl was alone on its mount?"Silence."No." the Crown Prince whispered. "He was not close enough. He could only see the fell beasts.""Ai Valar..." Fael moaned, face a new shade of white. "He wasn't killed. He was moved... to Minas Morgul.""We don't know that for certain." Thranduil said firmly, speaking for the first time. He wanted to give in to his fears and let terror claim his heart but he did not. He had to remain strong and levelheaded, an anchor of calm for his children. "It is best not to jump to conclusions without proof.""That is the problem." Megilag lamented. "Dol Guldur collapsed. I know you all felt it. Even if there were any hints to what happened to Little Leaf after four hundred years, it would all be destroyed." The second Prince took a deep breath, back straightening and posture firm, as if he were in a meeting and was preparing himself for a fierce reaction from the council. "We will never find Little Leaf by speculating and assuming. There is no physical evidence or links to the past in Mirkwood. But there is someone who can tell us what happened to Legolas..." He looked each of them in the eye. "... and that is the Witch-King of Angmar.""Have you forgotten that he is in Minas Morgul?" Hannel questioned rhetorically. "Also, we have that Void demon to worry about... Mirkwood is the only Sanctuary in Middle-earth. If we go outside, Iãgaw can find and kill us.""No he cannot." Thranduil said, slightly reluctant. Two desires within him were waging war, neither able to gain the upper hand. Half of him wanted to find Legolas, and the other half wanted to protect the children he still had with him. "I spoke with Aiwendil. Because we are the ones who Awakened the Sanctuary, its protection is within all members of the Royal Family, even when we are not in this realm. The Void cannot find us using his shadows, or use his energy-draining power on us. The only way he will see us is if he spots us physically, face to face, although he may be able to sense our presences if we get too close to him."Barhad frowned. "If the magic is tied to us, does that mean that if some of us leave the Sanctuary will be weakened?"The Elvenking shook his head. "No. As long as one of us stays within Mirkwood, the Sanctuary will remain as strong as if all of us were here.""Can this protection against Iãgaw's 'energy-draining' power be extended to other people?" Fael questioned intently.Again, Thranduil shook his head negatively. "I am afraid not."The silver-haired Prince sighed in disappointment. "I had hoped we would be able to shield at least some people outside of Mirkwood from Iãgaw.""Just be grateful that we can go outside of the realm and avoid detection." Bereneth said firmly. "That means that Legolas is protected from Iãgaw as well.""Only from his draining power." the Elvenking emphasized."Yes. But the point is that we can go find the Witch-King and beat the answer to what happened to Legolas out of him!" the Princess said vehemently."No you won't." a voice from the doorway said.The Royal Family all turned to look, expressions becoming masks of neutrality or calm as the advisers and Council entered the room. Thranduil rose from his chair, eyes narrowing at the newcomers."I was unaware that we were having a meeting, Council. I was also unaware that we were having one in my office.""My King, forgive us for the intrusion," an adviser, Amon, said. "However, this cannot wait. We only know little of what has happened and is happening, but we do know enough invoke the Council's Right."Thranduil stiffened, his children tensing around him. The Council's Right was a power granted to the Council and advisers by Oropher. It gave the Council the right and power to override their King's commands, for the good of the realm and the Elvenking himself.The Right was only put into action when the Council unanimously believed that their leader had or was going to make a decision that would put him and all of Mirkwood in unnecessary danger. It meant that the Council's orders were to be obeyed over the King and Royal Family's, and that they could veto any commands given by the King, as long as it was agreed that it was for the Royals' safety."We know that a great Darkness has come to this world," Amon stated. "We also know that the Lost Prince is alive. However, we cannot let any of you search for him. We need you here, in Mirkwood, not out in the world chasing ghosts."Thranduil clenched his fists tightly, hands shaking with rage. He reigned in his temper, knowing that shouting at the Council would only enforce their belief that he was making a hasty and emotional decision that would endanger them all. "My son is not a ghost." he said softly, icily. A few of the Councilors flinched but some remained firm.Amon looked at him levelly. "I know. But one person— even a Prince— is not as important as this realm. We need you and your children to be here, with us, to lead us. We are on the brink of a war, my Lord.""Do you think I am unaware of that?" the Elvenking asked in a too-calm, pleasant voice. "Do you think that I was going to run out of Mirkwood and find my son? I know what my duty is, adviser." He spat the word with such venom that some were surprised he had not spit poison. "However, there is no reason that my children cannot go and search.""There is a reason." Amon said stubbornly. "I know that Aiwendil claims that the Royal Family can leave the realm and still be protected, my Lord, but I do not believe it, and we have no intention of testing it to see if you are truly safe. Which is why the Council and advisers have ordered all guards and warriors to stop you if you try to leave the palace. Until we know you won't try to do anything foolish, we cannot trust you to leave.""You're imprisoning us here?" Bereneth demanded, looking ready to punch the adviser in the face. Internally, Thranduil hoped that she would."This is for your safety, and the safety of the realm," the adviser stated, seemingly unaware of the danger.The Elvenking placed a hand on his youngest daughter's shoulder to keep her from lunging for Amon. He walked around his desk, halting in front of the Council. His eyes scanned them, and he noticed that Tollui was not among them. He knew without a doubt that his friend would never have agreed to this, so how had the Council gotten the necessary unanimous vote? He pushed the question away to mull over at a later time, glaring at the Council with fiery blue eyes."If not for the Council's Right, this would be rebellion," he said softly. "And even though I know that my father gave you this power in order to 'protect this realm', I know that he would be as disgusted as I am with what you have done. You have gone behind my back without even knowing all of the facts, in an attempt to keep me and my kin from finding Legolas." His voice lowered to a hiss. "My trust in you all has been broken."But then he smiled. Just smiled, as if he had thought of a secret joke he found amusing. "I have nothing left to say to any of you."And he walked out without another word. His children followed after him, all silent. The moment the door closed behind them Fael rushed off, expression pained. None of the others followed him, and Thranduil took a moment to observe the rest of his children. Aglar was wearing a blank mask, even his eyes expressionless. Hannel was crying softly, most likely from hurt and frustration. Megilag looked angry, knuckles white from his fists being clenched. Barhad looked thoughtful.And Bereneth was visibly fuming, glaring at the guards they passed in the hall, but even she was keeping her silence, wondering what her father was going to do. Thranduil knew that she knew he would not let this go, so she waited with every ounce of patience she had, willing herself not to speak.There were many, many guards in the halls. Too many for the Royals to sneak past without detection. However, there was someone who Thranduil knew could get past the guards without an alarm being raised. And the Elvenking was sure that he could manage to smuggle certain determined children of his out as well.Aglar could not go. He was the Crown Prince and needed to be here as Thranduil's second-in-command. Hannel would disapprove of going to Minas Morgul, and was not a warrior. Barhad was also not a warrior, though the bright brown eyes looking at Thranduil suggested he knew what his father was planning, and approved. That left three..."Bereneth, your old sparring partner is in the Halls of Healing," The Elvenking said to his younger daughter, who looked at him in confusion. "He should be awake by now. You should go see him, perhaps doing so will ease your mind."Her saw her try to understand who he was speaking of. He saw her memory click about who else had been with them when they had awoken. He saw her eyes widen with realization, saw Megilag shift in the corner of his eye as the silver-gold haired Prince too understood. Not a suspicious word passed between them, and Bereneth merely nodded, walking off with Megilag trailing behind her.They wish to keep us from searching for my son... Thranduil thought as he watched Bereneth and Megilag hurry away towards their destination....I'd like to see them try.LOTRLOTRLOTRWhen awareness returned to Legolas, he did not stir or show signs of waking. Without even having to open his eyes he knew he was in a different place than he last remembered. That was rarely a good thing. He had been moved to an unknown place. Which meant he could wake up to two different situations.One: He could be with allies. Or two: He could be a prisoner of enemies.Before he let the outside world know that he was awake, before he even tried to recall how he had ended up unconscious, he had to see which situation he was in.With his eyes closed and features relaxed, he noted that there was a blanket over him and a mattress beneath him. Both were soft and comfortable, which, along with the fact that he was not chained, suggested that he was among allies. However, for an assassin who was used to sleeping in trees and on the ground, a cot in a prison cell could seem comfortable. It was better to double-check.He scanned the area around himself with his sixth sense. There were many stationary and patrolling presences, moving back and forth, and he felt a glimmer of unease. The patterns and spacing suggested there were guards. Perhaps he was not among friends.He spread his senses even further and relief washed away any lingering worry. He recognized the auras of Thranduil, Radagast, and the Royal Family, spaced out around him. He must be in the Elvenking's home. He did not remember coming here. The last thing he remembered was...He did not gasp aloud or sit up sharply in shock. On the outside, the assassin still appeared oblivious to the world, but internally he reeled as he remembered what had occurred. The odd Chant with the other elves. He thought they had sounded familiar but he could not identify them. The harsh shift in the forest's energy overwhelming him. Falling into not-quite-unconsciousness. Discovering that his memories were locked inside his mental shield. Trying to reach them and being pulled back, in the end only being able to retrieve one. Awakening as a frantic Radagast hurried him to the Elvenking's Halls. And finally, slipping into true blackness.Legolas mulled over the rapid sequence of events, feeling a mixture of confusion, fear, joy, and disappointment. He was confused as to why he had been one of the elves to Awaken the Sanctuary. Perhaps the elves were chosen at random? Regardless, he was not going to mention his involvement to anyone.Many elves were already in awe of him because he killed on of the Nazgûl, and he did not want any more attention. Plus, on the opposite side, he knew that Bereneth and those with a mindset similar to hers would become even more angry, condescending, and loathing towards him if they found out he had been involved in bringing up defenses for their realm.The assassin was afraid of what would happen now. He knew that the world had changed because of the Darkness that had come into it. He knew that Mirkwood was now a Sanctuary and was protected from that Darkness, Iãgaw. He knew that the Void was terrible, powerful, and could very well bring the world to its knees. One thing about the future was certain: War and the final battle was upon them.Legolas felt great joy at his discovery that his memories were only trapped, and still existed somewhere inside him. But he also felt largely disappointed that he had failed to reach them. The violet-eyed elf knew that he had been close to death when he had attempted to retrieve his memories. The only way he could think of getting them back without almost killing himself again would be to let out his inner glow completely. It was the logical path to take. After all, his glow was a mental shield inside him, which kept his memories trapped even from himself.He wanted to release his glow right then— Ai Valar, he did!— but the elf knew that he could not. The first reason was his promise to Galadriel, to keep his inner light inside him until the time was right. The other reason was much more important and monumental, for promise or not if Galadriel was the only reason he could not let his glow free the assassin would have ignored the Lady. It was not the promise that stopped him, but the recent experience of regaining that single memory.Legolas remembered how getting that one little memory had made him lose everything. It had only been for a second, but in that second all of his memories had been gone, completely wiped from his mind. If one memory made that happen, what would releasing all of them do to him? Would he become comatose, unable to ever regain consciousness or thoughts again? Would he be left a complete amnesiac, with nothing left?The assassin shuddered internally at the thought, still feigning unconsciousness. He could not risk it. Not now, when the Darkness had come and war was on the horizon. He would not let his glow out until this threat had been defeated and he was no longer needed. He would wait, and make sure to do it with someone he knew well beside him. Because if the worst scenario happened and he did lose everything... he wanted someone there to pick up the pieces.Legolas turned his thoughts away from the memories he could not reach, instead thinking about the one he had regained. Frustration and anger were his primary emotions, but there was some joy too. Out of all things, he had remembered his pet rabbit? Why couldn't he have remembered where he came from? Why couldn't he have remembered his family? The name of someone close to him?No, instead he remembered Floppy of all things. Instead of gaining something that could have helped him find out who Legolas had been, he had remembered something completely useless! The violet-eyed elf barely kept himself from throwing the closest object at the wall, also keeping himself from screaming at the sky and demanding to know why the Valar were being so cruel to himThe assassin sat up at last, keeping all rage and sadness inside of him and revealing nothing to the outside world. It just was not fair. He knew that his memories should be the least of his concerns right now, that it was not the end of the world, and that there was a lot worse unfairness happening in Middle-earth right then, but all Legolas wanted to do was brood and not care about anything else for once.He gave a shuddering sigh, looking around at the empty Hall of Healing. Whichever healer that was in charge of him had not come in yet. He probably would check up on his patient soon, and Legolas knew that if the elf tried to fret over him and make him stay in bed he would lose the tight control he had on his emotions. Either he would start screaming at the poor elf or he would knock him out before making his escape. He was not in the mood to deal with anyone.Feeling selfish and bitter but not caring in the least, Legolas got out of the bed, heading purposely for the window. Really, the healers should know better than to give their patients such an easy escape route. He could sense guards below but knew that they could be avoided easily. He just wanted to get out of the palace and deal with what he had learned and failed to learn. When he was done and calm once more, he would come back so that Thranduil and Radagast did not worry...A familiar presence approached behind Legolas and he paused in the windowsill. His lips pressed together and he considered leaping out the window without saying a word. But then the person said "Leaving already?" in a shaky, strained voice, and Legolas's conscience snuck up on him without his permission. The assassin sighed and turned around, his anger at the world retreating slightly as he spotted the expression on Fael's face. The Prince's eyes were bloodshot, his expression pained, and he looked ready to burst into tears if the wrong thing was said. This was exactly not what the assassin wanted to deal with right now, not when so much had happened and he had not had time to process it all.Still, Legolas managed to take a breath, forcibly push his own troubles away, and speak in a calm, soft voice. "You look terrible. What is wrong?"Yes, it was blunt and to the point. Tact was not something he was capable of right then. He just wanted to retreat and mourn, to be bitter and not care about anyone else. While his face did not show that sentiment his mannerisms did. The Prince was too deep in his troubles to notice though.Fael gave a shaky, brittle laugh. "It turns out that my little brother is alive."That statement was enough to shock Legolas out of his bout of angst. He stared at the silver-haired elf with open surprise in his expression, all thoughts about his own large-yet-insignificant troubles fading away. "The Lost Prince? But I heard he had been killed..."Legolas did not know much about the Lost Prince, only that he was Thranduil's youngest child and had been captured long ago, when he was still an elfling. Based on Fael's age, the assassin guessed that it must have been a few thousand years since the Lost Prince was lost. After all, elves usually only had children a few hundred years apart. Age gaps of over a thousand years between siblings were mostly unheard of."He's alive, and out in the world somewhere." Fael said grimly. "My family thinks he is in Minas Morgul."Legolas's eyes darkened. "That is not good. How could he survive that long in such Darkness?" Unless he has a shield like I do, he wouldn't stand a chance..."There's a power in Mirkwood that is keeping Little Leaf safe," the Prince told him, slightly evasive. "It keeps the Darkness from hurting him anymore, sort of like your mental shield."...Well, that answers that question. Legolas did not ask more about this 'power'. For all he knew, it could be something the Royals were born with, a secret they would rather not share. He knew all about secrets, so he would accept Fael's vague answer. Little Leaf. Tithenlas. Could that be the Lost Prince's name?"What are you going to do now?" the assassin asked. "Will you try to find him?"Fael's expression twisted into one of anger and disgust. "The advisers and Council have invoked their Council's Right. They have ordered all guards and warriors to stop us if we try to leave the palace... Those delorcioni!"The Prince kicked the chair next to Legolas's bed, cursing as the action caused pain to aggravate his toe. The assassin leaned against the wall beside the window, watching him with narrowed eyes. He may only know a little about the Lost Prince, but he could tell that the Royal Family cared greatly for their brother, and missed him dearly. How could the Council be so cruel as to forbid a family from trying to find their little brother? Although by now the elfling they once knew would be an adult elf..."You're not going to accept that, are you?" the assassin demanded. "He's your family. You need to find him and rescue him. You need to show him that you remembered him, love him, and that he is not alone."Legolas had a vague idea of what the Lost Prince must be going through. He had been separated from his family and tossed into a Dark place. And although it sounded like the Prince was protected by magic of some kind, he did not have a man like Ciaran to shield, help, and protect him. The Royal Family needed to find their youngest member. Families were supposed to be there for and save each other.As he thought this, Legolas wondered if he his family had tried to find him. Did he even have any family other than the mother he could not remember but knew was dead? Before he could return to his brooding melancholy, the door opened once more and Bereneth and Megilag entered.The Princess spotted Legolas but, to his surprise, did not scoff or glare at him. Instead she stalked forward, stopping in front of the young elf, studying him intently."Fael told you that our brother is alive?" she asked bluntly and without preamble. When the assassin nodded in assent she said. "And about the advisers?" Another nod. "Good. Will you help us escape the palace?"Her impatient question, plus the fact that she had asked and not demanded that he do so, struck Legolas speechless. Bereneth took his silence as a sign of uncertainty and huffed. "I wouldn't even ask but I know you can do it. Ada does as well, and he wants you to help us." The expected glare came into her eyes. "We just need your help getting out of the palace. We're going to search for our brother on our own.""We're looking for him?" Fael said distantly, apparently still far-behind in the plan. "We're going to go to Minas Morgul?""Yes." It was Megilag who answered, surprisingly firm. "But we have to leave soon, before the Councilors find out what we're planning." He looked expectantly at the still-stunned assassin. "Please, Esgal. Will you help us escape so we can search for the Lost Prince?"Legolas was not as close to Megilag as he was to Aglar and Fael, so the slight formality in the Prince's request was expected. Still, the hope in the silver-gold haired elf's eyes washed away any lingering, melancholy thoughts about the assassin's own situation, and before he could stop himself he nodded."Very well. I will assist you."LOTRLOTRLOTRTranslations:Delorcioni: my created form of "bastard", plural. By the way, I mean bastard as in "an insulting/curse-word way to pretty much say jerk" not "illegitimate child"A/N: FYI: Arwen, Galadriel, Haldir, Celeborn, and Haldir's brothers are all alive. I didn't put their escape sequence here. If I do decide to write it, it will be in flashback format.It was very interesting (and heartbreaking) to do the scene where the Royal Family was trying to figure out what happened to Legolas. I had to think "I don't know Esgal is Legolas. I don't know the Witch-King kept him alive and unhurt so that he could be an assassin. I don't know that Legolas escaped. I pretty much don't know anything. What would I assume happened? What would be my logic?" Like I said, heartbreaking but interesting to do.If people have a nickname for someone they tend to call them that rather than their full name, especially if they are close siblings. For example, I always call my sister by her nickname unless I'm mad at her. It's instinct. Fael was the closest to Legolas when he was an elfling, so of course he would keep calling him Little Leaf, especially around Esgal, who he sees as a close friend and who he assumed knew more about the Lost Prince than Esgal actually did. The older siblings, not being as close to elfling!Legolas , tend to switch back and forth between names. That being said, the three siblings (Fael, Megilag, and Bereneth) would and plausibly could have a conversation about Legolas with Esgal and not mention the Lost Prince's real name, especially since they've been calling him "the Lost Prince" for almost five-hundred years. Fael called the Lost Prince "brother" and "Little Leaf" because Esgal is his friend and Legolas is close to him. Bereneth called the Lost Prince "our brother" (as in hers, Fael, and Megilag's), making sure to emphasize that, because she doesn't like Esgal, thinks he is an intrusion, and wanted to point out that he is not a part of their family, (as far as she is aware, anyway), and has no right to be involved any more than she allows. Megilag called Legolas "the Lost Prince" because that is the distant, professional name for him. He does not know Esgal as well as some of his other siblings, so he used professional, diplomatic distance to ask a person who truly had no reason to help them for help.See my reasoning? It makes sense in my head...IMPORTANT! PLEASE READ!: Now that all of that is over with, let me reveal something that I myself did not realize until after I wrote "The Heir of Isildur", with baby Aragorn. There is a reason why I made Legolas "the last elf to be born in Middle-Earth". It was to make sure that there were absolutely no elflings when Iãgaw attacked the elves. There are also no elves under the age of 500, which is the age that warriors are deemed "old" enough to spar with real swords. They are all the age of capable warriors.I always knew that the elven realms would be decimated in Iagaw's first attack, and I also knew that there was no way that elflings would be able to survive it. In Lindon, he massacred all the elves, and in Lothlorien and Rivendell many elves were killed before they even realized that they were being attacked. They were then backed into corners, every single person fighting. There were no safe places and no chances to escape until the end.In the back of my mind, without even realizing it, I took elflings out of the equation by making Legolas the youngest. I knew the elves were losing power in Middle-Earth because of the Darkness, that made me come to the conclusion that elflings would not be born in such Dark times, and I jumped on the opportunity to make sure that elflings would not be involved with Iãgaw or the Shadow War. The thought of the demon killing elven children broke my heart more than anything else could, so I gave myself and all of you some relief by keeping elflings out of this war completely....I'm so happy that I did. :')Ew. Long A/N. :PThank you to everyone who reviewed!Responses to Guest reviews:Someone asked where I got the name "Iãgaw" from but I can't seem to find your review. Iãgaw came from two words that mean "Void" in Sindarin, iã and gaw. To "guest 2000": Thank you! Yes, he knows.To "Kryst": Thank you for reviewing! Radagast can't speak to the shadowed trees... is that who you meant by "he"? Thanks for the extra info on Mandos' Halls in your review for the chapter before last. :)To "guest 23": Thank you. In about three chapters. :)To "Guest": Thank you!To "Naomi": Thank you! Yes! Tell all your friends! :DTo "emi": Thank you! Yes, Radagast knows. You'll have to wait and see to find out the answers to those other questions. ;)To "Hassle castle": Thank you! Radagast is so awesome yet he seemed a little underused in canon. I thought of the idea where he had a different reason to come to Middle-earth and it all just clicked! Go Radagast!To "guest": Thank you for reviewing! Hopefully this update was soon enough to keep you sane.To "Guest": Thank you! I love plot twists. :DTo "mngirl": Thank you!To "soccerlover91": Thank you!To "Kiru": Thank you! :DTo "lythia": Thanks!To "Aisha": Thanks! Yes, he is. :DTo "Calenlassiel": Thank you!Please review!


********** Page 28 **********

A/N: Some may notice a similarity between this first part and a certain scene from canon. Will it end the same? Read on and see...LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Twenty-Seven: Separate DestinationsGandalf rode as fast as he could, his horse panting and sweating beneath him. But his mount did not slow, sensing his master's urgency. There was no time to waste. Ever since Iãgaw had awoken, the Wizard had been heading to Isengard. Saruman needed to be told about the Void, and the Istari had to think of a plan to defend against this unexpected threat.The Grey Wizard felt slightly betrayed. Why had the Valar not informed him that the Great Darkness to be defeated might not be Sauron? Instead of a Dark Lord, Middle-earth was facing a demon borne from Darkness, bent on obliterating and destroying all in his path.Iãgaw. Gandalf had never even heard of that name before the Void had invaded his mind and destroyed Narya. How could information and knowledge of such a threat be kept from him? Why had he not been told? The Wizard knew nothing about Iãgaw. He did not know the demon's powers, he did not know how to protect Middle-earth from him, and he most certainly had no idea how to stop him!How could the Valar have left him and the Free People in the dark? Ignorance was dangerous, and now it could get them all killed.Gandalf rode between towering trees, spotting the tower of Isengard standing proudly in the distance. He murmured softly to his horse, telling him to run just a little longer. The creature huffed and continued galloping full-out. Soon enough the black tower was in front of them, the horse halting in the path in front of the stairs leading to the door.The Wizard slid from his back, softly thanking his mount for his hard work. The horse nudged the Istar with his soft nose, wandering off to drink from a nearby pool. Gandalf did not worry about tethering his horse. The creature would return when needed, he was as loyal as they came.Black doors opened and Gandalf looked up, smiling in relief as Saruman appeared in the doorway."Saruman." he greeted."Gandalf the Grey." the White Wizard replied. "It has been a long time.""As much as I wish that I were here for a friendly visit, I am afraid that something has happened." the Grey Wizard said gravely.Saruman's visage darkened. "I am aware. Come, we have much to discuss."Gandalf followed his leader into the tower, the doors swinging shut behind him. Saruman walked into another room, sitting in a throne-like chair and clasping his hands before him. The Grey Wizard paced in front of the White, staff tapping the ground as he walked."A demon known as the Void has come to Middle-earth, and I fear that he is a greater threat than Sauron could ever be. I do not know his powers but I do know his goal: to completely destroy Arda, Valinor, and everything else in this world. We need to come up with a plan of attack and defense, otherwise Iãgaw will decimate the realms at his pleasure.""He already has," Saruman said calmly. "Imladris, Lothlorien, and Lindon have all fallen to ruin."Gandalf stiffened, whirling around to stare at his leader with a horrified expression. "That cannot be! How could the servants of Darkness reach the realms so quickly?""One of the Void's powers is the ability to travel and send others through shadows to a new destination anywhere in the world." Saruman explained. "Nowhere is safe and anywhere can be attacked at any time. There is no escaping the Void."The Grey Wizard paused, his face turned away from the White Istar and mulled over his leader's words. "How is it that you know so much about this threat? Did the Valar tell you about Iãgaw?" he asked, feeling slightly hurt but understanding if the Valar only told the White Wizard about the Void."Oh no." Saruman said. "The Valar did not tell me anything. I... found out on my own."A shadow crossed his face, and for a moment he looked older and more gaunt, something dark in his expression. But when Gandalf blinked the shadow vanished, and the Grey Wizard dismissed the sight as his tired mind playing tricks on him."You did? How?" he asked. "What else do you know? How can we defend against him?"The White Wizard chuckled, the sound loud and echoing in the large tower. "I know that Iãgaw can drain the energy, Light, and life from any creature near him. I know that he can manipulate shadows and turn them into weapons. I know that he can use telepathy to communicate with his forces. And I know... that we have no chance against him. There is no defense against the Void, and it is impossible to stop him."Gandalf's shoulders stiffened slightly and his hand clenched tightly around his staff. He turned slowly to look at his leader, who sat calm and serene on his throne. The sense that something was terribly wrong hit the Grey Wizard then, and he tensed in preparation of an attack."There is always a chance for triumph as long as people are willing to fight." he told the White Wizard harshly. "It is unlike you to give up so easily, Saruman.""'Give up'?" the white-robed Istar asked, dark eyes on Gandalf's face. "I did not 'give up', Gandalf. I found out the truth.""What truth?" the Wizard asked cautiously.Saruman spoke in his powerful, charismatic voice, sure in his conviction. "That Iãgaw will conquer this world, and the only way to ensure our survival... is to join him."Darkness rippled around him, echoes of power in his voice, and it was like a curtain had fallen away... to reveal nothing but darkest night. It was easy to recognize the presence of Dark magic around the Istar, laying over him like a oily, dripping cloak. Saruman's robes remained white but his magic was pitch black, permeating the air around him.Gandalf paled, and stepped away from his 'leader'. "What have you done, Saruman?""I was a fool who sought power," the White Wizard explained, his voice distant. "I sought power, and I found it, but it overwhelmed me. I was changed Gandalf. I no longer seek power, I only seek a way to ensure my own survival. For nothing can survive the Void without his permission. I no longer want for power. I found it, I have it, and now my only desire is to ensure the continuation of my existence so I may use the power I have gained. To do this I will work for Iãgaw, help him with his goals... and he will reward me.""That is your decision?" Gandalf asked, disgusted. "You choose to submit and serve rather than find a way to fight? Iãgaw will destroy you, Saruman! Nothing will prevent him from killing you once you have served your purpose to him!""That is why I will do something that will ensure that I am spared." Saruman hissed, eyes gleaming with a not-quite sane light. "You could help me, Gandalf. Together, we are sure to succeed. The Void will destroy you, he will destroy everything in this world, but if you swear to him and help me, we will not join this world in its destruction!"His eyes were intent and his voice cajoling and smooth, like he truly cared for Gandalf and believed this would make him safe, but the Darkness in the White Wizard's eyes neutralized any magic the Istar's powerful voice may have put over Gandalf, leaving his mind strong and his decision clear."I do not know what you are planning, Saruman," The Grey Wizard snarled, staring at his former leader with open disappointment and disgust. "But I want no part in it!""Then you are of no use to me." The White Wizard stated.His staff rose but Gandalf, already on alert, was ready.He swung his staff at Saruman, shouting an offensive spell. The White Wizard was knocked back, hitting the tower wall hard. He recovered and shouted a spell. Gandalf dodged, leaping sideways as a pulse of magic was shot at him. The force was enough to leave a jagged crack in the stone behind him, small pieces of the black rock hitting the floor.The Grey Wizard quickly responded with a beam of white light capable of piercing an enemy like a sword. The spell crashed against the shield Saruman conjured like water colliding with a cliff. It dissipated, leaving the White Wizard unharmed.The traitor jabbed his staff forward, shouting a curse in a Dark tongue, and Gandalf's eyes widened as yellow-green lightning ripped through the air towards him. He threw up a shield, the powerful blast striking the white light that protected him.He could see the lightning weakening the shield, lines that could only be described as cracks began to snake through the light. With a hollow crunch the shield shattered, falling down around Gandalf. The abrupt failure of the spell made the Istar fall to his knees, gasping.Saruman smiled condescendingly at the panting Grey Wizard. "You are weak, Gandalf. You know nothing of true power. By following the path the Valar chose for you, you have brought about your own—"Gandalf's staff slashed sideways like a striking sword. Saruman was lifted into the air, pulses of light wrapping around him like ropes. Keeping his staff pointed at the traitorous Istar, the Grey Wizard stood, speaking loudly and clearly in the magical language of his kind. The light-ropes tightened around the White Wizard, keeping him from moving, and steadily grew thicker. The spaces between the ropes grew smaller, slowly covering and containing the Istar.Saruman gave a muffled shout as the light encased him, blazing brightly. The light flashed, bright enough to blind, and when it cleared there was only a cylinder-shaped structure that appeared to be made of white, glowing stone.Gandalf breathed out slowly, lowering his staff and staring at the spell that contained Saruman with pitying eyes. The White Wizard would be unable to break free, unconscious of the world around him while trapped within that imprisoning curse. Once this war was done, he would be taken to trial for what he had done, and tried to do. The Istar shook his head, turning away from Saruman's prison. He needed to be elsewhere, to assist this world in its stand against the Void.He had barely taken a step when the world around him shuddered. On instinct, Gandalf threw up another shield. Dark energy burst out from Saruman's prison, the light containing him blown apart as easily as if it had been made of paper. The remaining tiny whisps of light quickly flickered and vanished as the White Wizard stepped towards Gandalf, proud and cold."Like I told you, you are weak. You stand no chance against me. The Void has given me power beyond your comprehension!"More yellow-green lightning shot at Gandalf, who— rather than standing solidly and blocking— redirected the lightning by batting it away. It was difficult, and each contact with the Dark magic sent shivers up the Wizard's spine, but he managed to deflect them all. His training and teaching of Radagast many years ago had helped him as well, the Grey Wizard stronger than he would have been if the Brown Wizard had not been determined to learn new spells.Gandalf too had discovered new ways to wield his magic during those lessons with Radagast, spells, he hoped, that Saruman was not aware that he knew. The Grey Wizard began to mutter under his breathas he defended and dodged, redirected and leapt, careful to keep moving in order to prevent one of the deadly spells from hitting him. Saruman watched him with a mixture of amusement and annoyance."Do not delay the inevitable, Gandalf. You cannot defeat me!"Gandalf ignored his former leader, still whispering, focusing on staying alive and gathering his power for the spell. He could feel the magic building within his staff, the top glowing brighter and brighter as power surged into it. Saruman noticed this but did not try to stop him, confident in his own Dark Magic. Hidden behind his beard, Gandalf almost smiled. The final word passed his lips in a shout.Light surged from his staff, and the powerful spell the Grey Wizard had uncovered while searching for ones to teach Radagast hit the White Wizard in the chest. He flew backwards, slamming into the wall with incredible force. He was held feet above the ground like an invisible force was holding him, as the spell rippled over him like lighting in water. As Gandalf watched it shocked and blacked out his senses, forcing the White Wizard's consciousness to flee. Saruman went limp, falling to the ground in a crumpled heap.However, the Grey Wizard knew that he would not be incapacitated for long. He was also unnervingly aware that Saruman was a lot more powerful than he let on, and in his tired state Gandalf was no match for him. Yet Gandalf could not bring himself to strike Saruman down.Hoping he would not regret his decision to leave the other later, the Grey Wizard ran out the front of Isengard, whistling for his horse. The loyal creature returned to him, not as rested as he could be but with enough strength to bear him away. Gandalf mounted on his back and whispered urgently into the horse's ear."Bear me away from here as quickly as you can. Once we are out of Isengard's sight, you may slow. Make haste, my friend!"The horse huffed and began to gallop, racing down the path that led away from Isengard. Gandalf leaned low over his running horse's neck, eyes narrowed against the wind even as sadness and grief tore at his heart. Saruman's betrayal had been shocking, but the more Gandalf mulled over what happened, the more he realized that a part of him had expected it.Saruman had always been power-hungry, wishing to rule over the People of Middle-earth rather than guide them. He also had more pride than the sea had water. Gandalf had always thought that Saruman had been content with the power he wielded, and had remained true to the Istari's mission. It had certainly seemed that way.But the White Wizard had always been secretive and manipulative, playing with those around him and gaining their trust, before using them for his own ends. Gandalf had most certainly been manipulated and played for a fool. How had he not seen Saruman's true nature, or sensed the Dark magic he now possessed?Guilty, angry, and grief-stricken Gandalf closed his eyes, trusting his mount to know the way. He had to get to Mirkwood. It had not been destroyed with the other elven realms for some reason, and he had to make sure at least one of the homes of the Firstborn was safe. And if it was not, then he had to defend it as best he could.He did not know if he had the power to stop the Darkness anymore.LOTRLOTRLOTRBack in Isengard, Saruman's eyes snapped open. The White Wizard sat up, chest aching where Gandalf's last spell had struck him. He had never seen such a spell before, and cursed the Grey Wizard for learning such magic without his permission.The Istar got to his feet, walking deeper into his tower. Gandalf would regret not joining him when he could. He would die with everything else in this world, picked apart and obliterated by the Void. Although Iãgaw would be content to sadistically play with the Free People for a little while, Saruman knew that the Void would eventually rip the world to shreds and destroy it with his crushing Darkness.Saruman had no intention of joining Middle-earth in its destruction. The demon had no intention of even sparing his servants. The Witch-King might or might not be aware that victory for the Void meant the end of his existence, but the White Wizard was painfully aware of that fact. There was only one thing that might convince Iãgaw to spare him. And that was to reveal what was hidden from the Void's sight.Radagast had not been as discrete as he thought he had been. The fool. Saruman may not have known about the Void before seeing him within the Witch-King's mind, but the Istar had recognized the setting of the dormant Sanctuary magic within Mirkwood. He had been unaware of what the Sanctuary was destined to defend against until Iãgaw had risen.However, he was clearly aware of its purpose now. The Sanctuary in Mirkwood was an ingenious piece of magic, he had to admit... but even it would fall to the Void. Saruman wondered if Radagast knew that the death of one of the Royal Family members was all that it took to shatter the magic shielding the Woodland Realm. A single death was all it took to destroy the most powerful Sanctuary the Valar could conjure up.It would happen eventually, whether the Royal Family members remained within Mirkwood or not. One of them would die. All Saruman had to do was speed the process along a little, and reveal his loyalty to the Void by revealing the one place that may have been safe from the demon.The White Wizard knew that the Sanctuary would fall, so he did not attempt to hide within it to protect himself. Why climb out of a stormy ocean into a sinking ship? No, the Istar would not try to gain entrance into the Sanctuary. He was on the unstoppable Darkness' side, and was too far gone to regret his decisions now.Up in his chambers, Saruman picked up a magical item, activating it with a murmured spell. Similar to the one that allowed him to see through Shadowed Elves' eyes, this spell was a variation of his own creation. Its purpose was not to see, but to communicate with his servants. Servants that were of the Race of Men. Although Saruman was slightly annoyed and disgusted with the short-lived, greedy mortals, they served their purpose well.The elves did not trust him, nor the dwarves. By extension, the hobbits had been out of his reach ever since the Shire burned. But men had remained easy to approach, and even easier to manipulate. He had spies in many places, allowing his sight and knowledge to spread far.More importantly, these men were not connected to the Void, and would more likely avoid detection until the time was right. It would not be enough to simply kill one of the Royals and let the Sanctuary fall. Saruman had to show Iãgaw the Royal, and tell him what had been hidden from his sight.The object in the White Wizard's hand glowed, and a voice spoke out from it as clearly as if his servant stood beside him. "My lord.""Are you prepared?" Saruman asked commandingly. He had contacted his spies the moment Iãgaw had awoken, putting his plan into motion as quickly as he could. There was no time to waste."Yes, my Lord." this servant said calmly. "We are almost there."Saruman smiled. The servants he had chosen were efficient and dedicated. He estimated they would have succeeded before the dawn of a new day. "Good. You know your mission. Do not fail me.""We will not fail, my Lord." the one on the other end replied without hesitance. "It will be done."LOTRLOTRLOTRGetting the three children of Thranduil out of the Palace was going to be easy. Even with the extra guards, and the three elves with him, Legolas still decided it would be simple to help Bereneth, Fael, and Megilag escape.All thoughts and emotions dealing with his own problems and fears had been shut away for the moment, left to be dealt with later. The Royals needed him at his best right now, to help them begin their quest, and he had to be free of turbulent emotions and distractions. He would be able to remain calculating, calm, and patient for a while longer, but Legoals knew that dam would break eventually. So unless the Royals wanted to see him break down or go into full-assassin mode to keep control of his roiling emotions, they had to move quickly.The three had gone to get rations and returned to the Hall of Healing, claiming that the provisions were for Esgal, who would be leaving soon. Cook may or may not have believed them but she did not ask any questions, packing the lembas and provisions without comment. The Royals returned, with Bereneth glowering at every guard along the way, but because they were heading to visit the assassin no one stopped them.The guards would do well to be more suspicious and wary. Though Legolas supposed that it was not negligence that kept them from keeping a more alert eye on the Royal Family. The guards did not know why the Council's Right had been invoked, and were undoubtedly wondering why the Council and advisers had felt a need to enact the Right. The Royals seemed perfectly calm in their eyes, and did not seem to be intending to run off any time soon.That was a shame for them, but good for Legolas. Nestor the healer had come in and looked him over already, so they were being left alone. The violet-eyed elf surveyed the three elves in front of him, as serious as if they were trying to escape an enemy realm. Technically, the guards and council could be seen as "enemies" in this instance, for they were trying to stop the four from reaching their goal."Are you prepared to leave?" he asked the three. They nodded. "Good. Follow me closely, and act as if we are in enemy territory. The guards are not your friends or subordinates right now, and if they catch us they will try to stop us from leaving. If a couple do spot us, let me handle it, all right?"Fael and Megilag agreed readily enough, but Bereneth hesitated."You're not going to kill them, are you?" she asked.Legolas let his expression go blank as he stared at her. "Do you honestly think so little of me?" His voice revealed none of the hurt he felt at her statement.Bereneth only grunted in response, the mistrust and hostility in her eyes answering his question. Apparently pretending to be nice and friendly for more than a few minutes was beyond her capabilities. The distant frustration at not being able to regain a useful memory simmered beneath Legolas's skin, and while he normally would have been able to throw off the Princess's attitude without a care, now he had to resist the urge to punch her in her condescending and sneering face. Why had he agreed to help again?Legolas kept control over himself turning sharply away from Bereneth. "Follow me." he said without visibly reacting to the Princess's scorn.He leapt out the window, walking carefully along a thin ledge a few feet below. He walked along it to the right of the window, then dropped into a tree that stood near the palace wall The leaves did not even rustle as he landed. The other elves followed easily enough, standing on the branches beside him.The assassin studied the path ahead. There were less guards outside than inside the palace, the councilors not expecting the Royals to leap out of windows to escape. The more he thought about the councilors, the more Legolas decided that they were all incompetent idiots. Although their foolishness was beneficial now, the assassin hoped it would not cause people to be hurt in the future.There were guards near the palace wall, and more out the bridge that they believed was the only easy way out of the stronghold that was the Elvenking's home. Little did they— and many others— know that there was a tunnel on the western side of the palace, hidden down by the river that flowed beneath it.There was no path leading to the site, only a series of seemingly-random placed rocks that made for an easy climb down near the water. The only reason Legolas had found the hidden tunnel was because he had been exploring the river on a whim, thinking about Bilbo's tale of how the dwarves escaped the Elvenking's home. The tunnel was further upstream than where the dwarves had fallen into the river.That meant it was around the corner to where the assassin and the Royals were now. Legolas studied what stood between them and the spot, unable to fully see what lay around the bend. There were a series of trees close to the wall, and the angle of the sun caused lengthening shadows to stretch across the path they needed to travel. The only objects of concern were the patrolling guards.There were six in Legolas's line of sight, in groups of two. If one spotted the Royals he would knock the pair out, but they were too close for the other elves not to notice. The violet-eyed elf would rather not have them all be chased down the climbing path to the tunnel. It was safe, but not safe enough that they could afford to descend in haste.Analysis done, the assassin again commanded. "Follow me."They did, as silent as he hoped, staying in the foliage and shadows. Legolas noted with approval that all three had dimmed their glows as much as they could. The trees shielding them discreetly covered the three glowing elves with their branches as well, aiding in the escape without being asked. Still, a wary guard might spot them. The glowless elf stayed closest to the guards, half-listening to the soft, distant rush of water that was the river.They had rounded the corner and were heading towards the river's edge when Fael stepped on a twig. The snap was loud and the two nearest guards rose their weapons, peering through the trees in their direction."Who is there?" one guard, who Legolas recognized as Heled, called out.Legolas placed a hand on Fael's shoulder, gesturing that he and his siblings should keep moving. They did, while the assassin stepped out of the shadows. Heled relaxed the moment he spotted the assassin, sword lowering."Esgal," he said with a smile, waving a hand at his partner to make him stand down. "I'm surprised that I heard you."Legolas smiled back at him. Hidden beneath his loose cloak and clothes, his muscles were tense. He was ready to attack if the elves needed to be silenced. A pressure point on the neck will knock him out instantly. Should his partner be quick enough to react, he will attack will be a downward left-diagonal slash. A dodge and a light blow to the throat will take him out. "I've just... been released from the Hall of Healing." he admitted.The warrior chuckled knowingly. "Escaping from Nestor, are you?"Legolas could sense the Royals approaching the river. Soon they would be hidden beneath the bridge. "Yes." he admitted, with just a hint of embarrassment. "I find healers to be... overbearing."Heled laughed again. "Don't we all? Continue with your escape. I won't interfere."The Royals were beneath the bridge. Still tense, still ready, the assassin nodded in appreciation. "Thank you, Heled. I'll be on my way then."He vanished into the shadows, the guards losing sight of him instantly, and made his way to the others with practiced grace. He appeared in front of them, Megilag stifling a shocked gasp. Noting Bereneth's eyes on him, Legolas turned and openly glowered at the Princess, violet eyes cold."See, Princess? I am capable of solving problems without violence or death," he said pleasantly, knowing she had been watching the exchange.Bereneth twitched, then huffed. "Just show us where the tunnel is."It was a good thing Legolas had learned to ignore her scorn long ago. Hidden in the shadows beneath the bridge, he climbed down over the edge, hands and feet finding the familiar climbing stones. He made his way down, the Royals climbing more cautiously above him. Soon enough his feet reached the small stone platform that was hidden at the edge of the river.The water rushed by, droplets spraying the assassin. He stepped into the dark, dusty stone tunnel that could not be seen from above, waiting for the others to join him. They did, entering the tunnel and looking around with startled expressions."I never knew this was down here." Fael whispered, wary of his voice reaching the world above. "How did you find this place?""I was exploring out of interest." Legolas told him. "I believe that this may be a tunnel intended for the Royal Family to escape through in case of a siege. I'm sure that the Elvenking knows about it, though I do not know why he would not inform you about its location.""Well, it is certainly serving its purpose today," Megilag said. He stepped into the tunnel, letting his glow out. It lit up the dark space slightly. "You would not happen to have a torch, would you?"Bereneth reached into her bag, bringing out it and some flint. "Here." She lit the torch and handed it to her older brother.The Prince gave it to Legolas. "You know the way."The assassin nodded and began to walk, setting a brisk pace. He was decidedly neutral about being beneath the ground, but knew his Royal companions might not be as calm away from the sky and stars. It was best to get through the tunnel as quickly as possible."How far does this go?" Fael questioned, green eyes gleaming in the partial darkness."Almost to the edge of the wood." the violet-eyed elf said. "It heads West, so I am afraid that you will have to circle around to the south in order to reach your destination.""Personally I am glad that it does not head South." Megilag muttered. "It would be rather counterproductive if fleeing elves were heading towards the most likely source of their reason to flee.""Yet that is where we are headed," Bereneth said without an ounce of fear.Legolas had to respect her determination and unwavering belief in the Royals' mission. As he walked, he debated silently debated with himself about his next move. His emotions were still in turmoil deep within him, not yet having been dealt with, and his need for solitude to organize his thoughts was like a painful ache.Then he would think about the Royals' mission and what it entailed. He knew he had no right to think this... but should he try to go with them? He had said he would help them escape the Palace, no more, and Bereneth's obviously did not think he was needed any further. Legolas knew that, for once, it was not just her disliking of him that made her say that.They were searching for their youngest brother, the Lost Prince, who may or may not be called "Tithenlas". Did he, an assassin, and someone who had only met them less than sixty years ago, have any right to ask to be a part in the quest to reunite the Royal Family of Mirkwood?It was their quest. It was their right to go alone. Yet Legolas felt conflicted about simply letting them travel to Minas Morgul by themselves. They were three powerful warriors, protected by a secret magic he did not know or understand, but would that be enough? It was not like him joining them would make that much of a difference, four instead of three.But it could. Because he knew about Darkness. He had grown up in it. He had grown under the power of the Witch-King... That thought was what made the assassin hesitate the most. Did he want to join the quest to help find the lost Prince, or to get a chance to kill the one who had tried to enslave him and whom he hated with a passion?Sunlight appeared in front of them, the long tunnel coming to an end. Legolas stepped out beneath the wide-open trees of one of the towering shadowed trees near the edge of the realm. The Royals filed out behind him, eyes adjusting quickly to the bright light. Up ahead, the assassin could see what appeared to be a thick wall of wood. Closer inspection revealed that the wall was living interwoven tree limbs. It looked to be at least fifty yards thick, going off as far left and right as the elves could see.The violet-eyed elf tipped his head to the side, looking at the odd structure barring their path thoughtfully. So this is part of what the Awakening Chant did.He could sense the new calmness and clarity the shadowed trees possessed. The magic of the sanctuary flowed through them, leaving them not Dark, but not exactly Light either. They were still shadowed, but it was a different kind of Shadow. An almost natural kind, like a warm cloak of cotton rather than one made of chilling ice."Will they let us pass?" Megilag asked, almost to himself.As if in response to his words, the limbs blocking their path split apart like a parting sea, unwinding and revealing the world outside. The three Royals flinched at the movement while Legolas merely blinked.Megilag cleared his throat nervously, looking uncomfortably up at the trees that had— until yesterday— had been the enemies of all glowing elves. "Er. Thank you?"You're welcome, the trees whispered in their still-harsh but amused voices.The Royals twitched again, and the assassin could only guess what they were thinking at the moment. Legolas smiled internally. Even with magic making them sane, the shadowed trees were still foreboding and strange. To those that did not know them, at least.Bereneth, Fael, and Megilag did not move, still staring down the cleared path. The assassin beside them did not know whether they were wary of leaving home or if they were afraid the trees would try to kill them once they moved in range."They will not attack you," the violet-eyed elf said irritably after an extended period. "They are on your—" Presences entered his awareness. "Oh no..." he breathed, and shot forward.He raced through the open path in Mirkwood's physical defenses, the Royals running after him. His urgency overcame their trepidation. The moment they stepped outside of the forest, the wall of woven wood returned, sealing the way shut. The four elves all spotted figures heading towards them, still far-off but close enough for their elven eyes to see.Nine men were running and stumbling in their direction, two supporting and dragging a potentially-wounded man along. Behind them, like a storm cloud overcoming the sky, were orcs. Ten, twenty, fifty of the creatures chased the fleeing men. As the elves watched a couple of the men shot down a few with arrows as they ran.So they at least had a few weapons. Good. Legolas glanced at his companions, Fael drawing his bow while Bereneth and Megilag unsheathed their swords. The assassin smiled slightly, both slightly excited and grim. The orcs would not stand a chance. Without an order or word passing between them, the elves ran at the men, the mortals expressions changing from terror to astonishment."If you have weapons, prepare to fight." Megilag told them calmly in Westron."Are you mad?" one man said in disbelief. "There are too many of them!"The Prince smiled, and his eyes were cold as he looked at the creatures that had taken his brother away so long ago. "No there are not."And the elves attacked. Fael shot down three orcs in the span of a few seconds, Legolas taking down four more with his own bow. The two men that still had arrows in their quivers stood their ground beside the elves, shooting two each. The orcs slowed and hesitated when they saw the elves, allowing the four archers to kill six more of them as they stood still in indecision. Then, they continued their charge, and Fael and Legolas put away their bows, unsheathing their sword and daggers respectively.The first orcs came upon them. Legolas slashed one with twin downward strikes, stabbed another in its throat, turned and plunged his blades through armor and into a third's heart. Beside him, he sensed it as Bereneth beheaded one and cut off another's arm before killing it. Fael's horizontal slash bisected his first enemy, a twisting right sweep cutting an orc deep across its back.Megilag attacked with quick, rapid thrusts, more prone to stabbing then slashing. His thinner sword was better suited for this style of fighting. One, two, three rapid stabs brought down an orc, a quick thrust through a second enemy's spine making it collapse to the ground.The men also fought. Legolas noted that while a few had swords, most battled with hunting knives and other weapons meant for hunting game. He had a feeling he knew what these men were doing before the orcs found them.The assassin swayed out of the way of a stab, grabbing the orc's arm and pressing a point with long fingers to make him release his sword, at the same time stabbing him in the chest with his other blade. He pulled the dagger free and stepped back, turning, sheathing his knives, and throwing a few throwing daggers at some of the more distant orcs. Each small knife hit an orcs' throat or face, downing them instantly.Ten orcs were left, and they quickly realized that they were now outnumbered. They tried to flee, but the elves and men swarmed on them, taking them out without mercy. A single orc was quickly distancing himself from the elves and men. In a single, fluid movement, the assassin put an arrow to his bow, sighted, and fired. The orc fell without a sound, the shaft in his back.The silence after the battle was deafening, excess energy rushing through all's veins as they waited for the next attack. The others gripped their sword and weapons, but the violet-eyed elf calmly sheathed his, stance relaxed and peaceful. Noticing this, the other elves let their tense muscles relax as well, sheathing their own weapons."There are no more enemies nearby," Megilag informed the still-nervous men.They looked at him in confusion for a moment before they too sheathed their blades. The man who had asked Megilag if he was mad stepped forward, bowing formally."Thank you for helping us." he said. "I am Jodac. My friends and I were out hunting when the orcs attacked us."He looked worriedly at the man who had been supported by two others. He was standing on his own two feet and had fought alongside the others, but his face was now ashen and he looked ready to collapse."Elisedd was struck by an orc's sword, a glancing blow to the leg. I fear that he needs medical attention." Jodac continued, urgency in his tone.Fael, Megilag, and Bereneth looked concerned, but Legolas could also see conflict ion in their eyes. The closest place to get care for a sword wound would be the Elvenking's Palace. The men would never be able to find it on their own. They needed a guide, and the three Royals were on a quest that could not be delayed. If they went back, then the councilors would stop them from leaving again. As it was, the Council probably did not even know that they were gone yet.The assassin knew what he had to do."(I will take them to Nestor.)" he told the three Royals in Sindarin. They looked at him, startled. He smiled at the them all, even Bereneth. "(You must continue with your mission.)" he continued in Sindarin. "(Find your brother, all right?)"The three Royals nodded, relief just showing. "(Le hannon, Esgal.)" Fael said softly. He turned to the men and spoke in Westron. "Esgal will take you to a healer, at the Elvenking's Palace. We wish that we could accompany you, but we are on an important mission and cannot be delayed.""We understand," Jodac said, relieved that one of them would help them.The wall that physically guarded Mirkwood split apart at Megilag's command. The trees did not hesitate in letting the men in. The second Prince vouched for them, and Daelas led them, so they must not mean harm. Legolas went to lead the men into the forest, but paused when he saw Bereneth staring at him with an odd expression on her face.He quirked an eyebrow at her. "(Is there something you need?)" he asked, still in Sindarin.She opened her mouth, closed it, then glared at him once more. Then she turned on her heel, walking quickly away. Megilag and Fael murmured hasty goodbyes and thanks before following their sister. Legolas sighed and shook his head, then turned to the men. Silently, he gestured for them to follow him, and together they walked into the forest. The tree limbs wove together behind them, and Mirkwood was once again cut off from the outside world.LOTRLOTRLOTRTranslations:Le hannon: Thank you.(In the bottom section, stuff italicized and in parenthesis represents them speaking in Sindarin.)A/N: I don't do full conversations in Sindarin. I know a lot of authors put the translations at the bottom or beside the words in parenthesis, but I'm not confident enough with my Sindarin to do more than the occasional word in it.I hope Saruman wasn't too OOC. His search for power led him to Iãgaw, and Iãgaw would not let Saruman try to manipulate him for his own ends. I won't go into detail now, but Iãgaw pretty much put his foot down forcefully, and something in Saruman shattered. Now, rather than seeking power, he seeks a way to ensure his own survival. It's kinda sad.On a lighter note, I kept imagining Gandalf shouting "Expelliarmus!" "Protego!" and "Stupefy!" during the battle. XDIn the scene with Legolas and the Royals' escape, I felt like I was playing one of those video games where you have to avoid the pacing people. I hate those games. I always get caught! :( I didn't want to make a huge fight/dramatic chase-scene escape with the Royals & Legolas because 1) the elves are their allies and I wanted to avoid a confrontation with them, 2) a dramatic escape scene is not Esgal's style when it can be avoided and 3) the entire point of having Legolas help the Royals was for them to avoid detection. I also wanted to show that Legolas can do something without violence. Yes, he was planning how to attack and knock out the guards but he didn't do it. He acknowledges the elves as friends, even in that instance, and was reluctant to harm them in any way. I hope the action scene at the end made up for the lack of action in the escape. :PThank you to everyone who reviewed, followed, and favorited! And a special thank you to L.J. Gryphon for helping me with some plot points and information again! :DResponses to Guest reviews:To "guest 23": Thank you! About two chapters.To "guest 2000": Thanks!To "Starrising": Thank you! Bilbo knows Legolas's past and name, but he does not know that Legolas grew up in Dol Guldur. Esgal kept the facts vague and kept most names out of it to protect Bilbo. No one else knows the full story of Legolas's past. They only know bits and pieces, like how he was raised by an assassin someplace Dark.To "Anony-Mouse": Thank you! I was actually listening to the song when I was writing that scene. I have a playlist for different parts of the story. For example, Legolas's "theme" is the "Assassin's Creed Revelations Main Theme", and the song I was listening to while writing the scene with Saruman was "A Demon's Fate" by Within Temptation. :)To "Fallenfire": Thank you! :DTo "Guest3": Thank you! There is going to be so much Legolas/Certain-Royal-Family member angst in the near-future... ;)To "Guest": Thanks!To "Bebeyeah": Thank you! :)To "Kryst": Thanks for reviewing! You'll see what happens soon... ;)To "TiTaN": Thank you! Huh. Now that I think about it, it kind of is. Its like a yellow-green version. I didn't even make that connection... Cool. :DTo "max": Thank you! I want to slap the canon-Eagles for not flying Frodo to Mount Doom. I know we would not have had a story then, but still! Darn Eagles... :(To "Naomi": Thank you! Bereneth, Fael, and Megilag are not the ones who find out who he is first. The reveal is not far away. As for Legolas remembering his past... it's going to be a while.To "Guest": Thank you! I already have her reaction planned out. (smirks) She is going to regret a lot of things...To "emi": Thank you! Don't read the last part first! Then you know what's going to happen! Lol :P Its not much longer now. You'll be seeing more of the siblings. I plan on showing more of their characters and inner thoughts in upcoming chapters. As you saw, he did not go with them.To "Guest 725": Thank you! Legolas is 500 years old exactly. That was unintentional at first because before I began to figure out the timeline, the main events in the story happened in 3018, making Legolas 507. But then I changed it because I wanted the events to happen earlier, so he's an even 500.To "guest": Thank you! Still so close yet so far... but its not that far away now.To "Aisha": Thank you! The Council did not believe Radagast because they seem him as a crazy fool. Frodo, Merry, Sam, and Pippin will be arriving in about three or four chapters. I've been focusing on the elves and need to get certain things out of the way before expanding to the other Races of Middle-earth. :)To "VJ Riddle": Thank you! It's a careful balancing act to make sure Legolas does not become a Gary Stu. I just hate how helpless some people make him in their stories, and I wanted him to be an absolute badass to counter that. :P Of course Thranduil wasn't going to let the Councilors stop him! They were idiots to think that they could even try! :PPlease review! :)


********** Page 29 **********

A/N: (If words are like this, that means that the characters are talking in Sindarin around people who do not understand it.) "Sindarin is the elves' primary language so assume that they are also speaking Sindarin when only with other elves, even if the text is normal. It just means that they are not around people who do not understand the language." Does that make sense?LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Twenty-Eight: Innocence, Ignorance, and ControlIãgaw stood in front of the Witch-King, facing away from his servant as he studied the mass of elves in front of him. The Shadowed Elves were all silent, standing in army formation. They stared blankly ahead with their demonic black eyes, waiting for their Master to command them. The Void walked in front of the first line, studying each Dark-tainted elf as he passed. Some eyes glinted with lingering intelligence, others were absolutely blank, and still-others showed nothing but bloodlust and savagery.He had summoned them through his shadows before the Nazgûl had set the two elven realms ablaze. Now they waited, in straight, patient lines, for their Lord's orders. They were all his servants, his slaves. He could do with them what he wished and they would give their lives for his cause, loyal to him and only to him.If he told them to burn villages they would. If he told them to murder children they would not hesitate to do so. It he told them to turn on their fellow Shadowed Elves and massacre each other, they would obey his commands. With a few exceptions, all of their previous personality had been extinguished, leaving creatures that lived only to serve the Void.Iãgaw glanced sidelong at the one Shadowed Elf that was not in the lines, the one who had been in Minas Morgul for almost sixty years. Amulug was as silent as the rest of his kin, but the Darkness was deeper in his eyes, as was the intelligence. He was not one of the ones who had become a mindless, cruel beast, keeping his mind and intelligence, but still completely loyal to his Master.If the Shadowed Elves were Iãgaw's cult of followers, then Amulug would be the priest. He held enough of himself to lead others and make calculated and strategic decisions. He would attack without question or mercy. The Darkness had molded him well, into a weapon and a leader. That was what Iãgaw needed for his Shadowed Elves.The Void turned back to his ranks of obedient slaves, surveying each one in silence. He halted in front of one that wore the garb of a Rivendell warrior, looking into the savage, dark eyes."What is your name?" the Void asked in a pleasantly curious tone.Black eyes flickered, and the elf bowed low. "Liphen, my Lord.""Liphen..." Iãgaw said the name, rolling it over his tongue. He smiled at the Shadowed Elf. "Kill yourself."Without hesitation, the Shadowed Elf unsheathed his sword, and plunged the blade into his own chest. Crimson blood spurted from the wound and the elf collapsed. Around him, the other Shadowed Elves did not so much as blink as one of their own died.Iãgaw looked down at Liphen, watching his life fading. "Absolute control..." he murmured softly, almost awed by his own power. "That surpasses even the survival instinct... Very good."He knelt next to the Shadowed Elf, not caring about the blood, and watched as the light that was Liphen's soul flickered. A tiny void began to form as the soul began to leave the body. That void was all Iãgaw needed. He reached forward, touching the elf's chest, and grabbed the soul before it could flee into Mandos's Halls.It struggled against him but it was only a soul and he was the Void. None could resist him. The soul quickly realized this and gave up, dim and complacent in Iagaw's hands. He retracted his hand, a ball of light in his palm, and rose to his feet. He turned to the Witch-King and Amulug."I will be working on a special project for a while, and will be unable to turn my attention elsewhere for a little while. Send the orcs and Shadowed Elves out to wreak havoc upon the realms of men while I am busy, will you?" It was not a question."Yes, my Lord." both said, bowing low."My Lord, what will you be doing?" the Witch-King asked.Iãgaw smiled cruelly at him, eyes burning with malice and delight. "I'm going to prepare a surprise for the Free People. I'm sure that they will love it, and thank me oh so generously for the gift..."He entered Minas Morgul without explaining more, heading up to the topmost tower. There, he settled into a deep meditative state, losing all awareness of everything around him. The soul in his hands was fragile, delicate and weak, so he would need to proceed carefully if he wanted to succeed.The soul dimmed further as he let his Darkness touch it, but he refused to let it fade or be destroyed. He kept it together with his Darkness, as gentle and careful as a caring mother's hand. Slowly, his Darkness invaded it, streaks of Shadow entering the ball of light.And for a single second, Iãgaw saw a flash of beautiful wide-open halls.Sinking deeper into meditation and concentration, the demon smiled.LOTRLOTRLOTRLegolas was almost amused by the hunters' reactions to the shadowy forest. The men were watching the dark trees around them nervously, the more active shadowed trees twitching and swinging their limbs randomly without a breath of wind to explain their movement.The assassin could sense the shadowed trees curiosity and fascination with their new mobility and sanity. They loved being not bothered by things that were too-bright. They loved being able to stretch and sway, almost humming in content.Their minds were clear, free of the evil Darkness that had claimed them for so long, and they were almost giddy with joy at their escape from unwilling servitude to the Shadow. They were not Light, but they were free, and they were happy.But the men with Legolas knew nothing of this, and so they watched the trees warily. The assassin doubted than any of the hunters had ever been in an elven realm before. It had to be unnerving to see trees moving and reacting as casually as a flesh-and-blood creature.Still, the violet-eyed elf was more amused and analytic of the hunters' reactions than sympathetic to their plight. Because although they had fought together, although he was leading the men through the Sanctuary that was Mirkwood, although he was bringing them to the realm's heart, Legolas did not trust them. They were strangers, and the assassin would remain suspicious of them until he knew more about them, their background, and their goals.He was not the type to trust others immediately— with a few noteworthy exceptions— and he found men to be the most volatile of the Races. They were the most likely to follow Darkness. He remembered the men in Dol Guldur, and although he would not call himself prejudiced, he was decidedly wary of men he knew nothing about.The mortals were the only people who could be servants of the Darkness without the Darkness showing in their auras. Elves auras showed the Shadow because elves were meant to be Light. Hobbits rarely served the Darkness, and if they did it caused physical changes and showed in their eyes. Dwarf eyes would also show Darkness and evil, like the open greed and lust for gold that plagued some of their kind. But men could hide the Darkness in themselves because they were the most likely to choose it freely.Orcs and trolls were born to the Darkness. Elves could be slowly converted to it and become Shadowed. Dwarves fell to it through greed. Hobbits rarely chose to join the Shadow. However. men could and would choose Darkness, a thing so common in some places that some people claimed the curse of Isildur was present within all of his Race.Legolas remembered Aragorn's old fears that he would one day become corrupted like his ancestor, saying weakness was in the nature of men. The assassin firmly believed that men were not weak, especially not Aragorn and that the Heir of Isildur had nothing to worry about.However, some men were weak, to corruption, evil, and thoughts of power. They were capable of cruelty and sin without outside forces influencing them. That was why, out of all Races of the Free People, Legolas was the most wary of men he did not know at all. He knew nothing about his companions except that they were hunting, so suspicion settled in his mind. It was better to be wary and prepared rather than friendly and caught off guard.Out of all Races, the assassin was most cautious around unknown men, because that was how Ciaran had trained him. Legolas never could figure out if Ciaran hated his own Race for an unknown reason, or if he simply knew that men had equal potential to be treacherous or friendly."Because our lives are short compared to many," the assassin remembered his mentor saying once. "We do things others wouldn't, without thinking about the consequences, because we know we don't have much time to gain the power we desire. Our lives are so short and fleeting that many of us want to leave a mark on the world, just so it knows and remembers that we were there. For better or wose."Legolas had encountered many men over the years, and had seen just how capable of good and evil they were. He remembered Riagán, who had wanted to attack and murder innocents in Blue Harbor in order to conquer it and leave its natives cowed. That had been the man's desire for power, and his desire to leave a irremovable scar in that small part of the world. No not-Shadowed elf would partake in Kinslaying, few dwarves would attack their own kind, and killing their fellow hobbits was beyond the friendly people's comprehension.So yes, Legolas was wary of these men, but he would give them the same benefit of the doubt as he would any strangers he met. Still, it might be a good idea to try to gather some information..."How much further?" the leader of the hunters, Jodac asked the elf.Legolas gave him a blank look. "(I'm sorry, I do not speak Westron.)" he said in Sindarin.One of the men he did not know the name of groaned. "Of course they send us with the one that cannot understand a word we are saying!""Be quiet, Koun." Jodac ordered irritably. He sighed and smiled wearily at Legolas, gesturing forward emphatically. "Lead on."The assassin smiled back and went on without comment, listening as the men spoke quietly behind him."You need to be more respectful, Koun." Jodac was lecturing his friend/subordinate. "The elves could have left us outside of the forest with no help for Elisedd.""Why are you whispering?" Koun grumbled loudly. "It is not like he can understand us anyway."Deciding the man's angry tone and raised voice was enough of an explanation for him to turn around, Legolas looked at the scowling man, open worry in his expression. "(I don't like you.)" he said in a voice that portrayed nothing but concern and ignorance."What did he say?" Koun asked suspiciously.Another man— with dark brown-black hair— gave him a pointed look. "I think he was probably asking if everything was all right."He smiled at the elf, nodding in an attempt to say yes, everything was fine. Legolas snorted internally, and kept up his ignorant facade.Koun huffed and rolled his eyes, but kept his tone even. "You have no idea what he's saying, so shut up, Cynbel."Cynbel ignored his companion, and Legolas turned away once more, still listening as the men continued to speak to one another."I think this one is young," the brown-black haired man revealed softly and thoughtfully."How would you know?" Koun challenged. "All elves are supposed to look young.""It's his eyes." Jodac said knowingly. "They seem rather... innocent and carefree."Legolas blinked, glad he was turned away as a surprised expression crossed his face. Him, innocent and carefree? He could be at times, he supposed, but right now, when he was on edge? It was nice to know his acting skills were still good, especially since his emotions were in turmoil within him. But still, he had never had his eyes described as innocent as long a he could remember. At least, not to his face."You saw him fight earlier," Cynbel murmured. "He is well-trained, and used to war.""Of course he is," a fourth man said. "We're in Mirkwood. It's not exactly the safest elven realm."It is now, Legolas thought.Speaking of which, he wondered how the other realms were faring. Were his Gwador and the others all right? He hoped so. Who knew what Iãgaw was doing in the outside world right now, or what had occurred in the few days since his arrival in Middle-earth. Mirkwood was safe, but everywhere else was not. And with the Shadowed Elves working for Iãgaw... an attack may have already happened.Legolas sighed internally, hating all of the sudden unknowns that were hovering at the back of his mind, waiting to pounce and swarm him the moment he let them in. His fear for his friends, his frustration at his missing memories, his inability to fully process all that had occurred, and his overall stress and concern waited patiently for him to let his guard down.Just a little longer, he told himself, knowing that bottling up his emotions was not a good idea for him.When he did finally let his emotions free, and registered all that had happened, he wondered if he would break down and have a panic attack, or would simply go into shock. So much had happened, and was still happening, and he had had no time to sort things out and deal with it. Hopefully he would be able to before he withdrew or exploded.He wished for solitude to think about things, but could not get it yet. So he continued to lead the men through the forest, pretending to be innocent and ignorant, with companions he did not know and barely trusted.LOTRLOTRLOTRThranduil was calmly reading a missive from Erebor when Amon stormed into his office, two Councilors behind him. The Elvenking resisted the urge to smile smugly at the irate adviser, already knowing what was the source of his agitation."It seems that common etiquette and respect for the King has vanished from this realm," the Sindar commented benignly.Amon glared at him. "Do not act as if you do not know why I am here! Prince Fael, Prince Megilag, and Princess Bereneth are gone!"Thranduil rose both eyebrows at the adviser. "Really? Are you sure that they are not in the kitchens? Their rooms? The training grounds? Surely you would not try to keep my children from training.""They are not anywhere on the Palace grounds, as you know very well!" Amon snapped. "Where are they, and how did they get out of the Palace?""They are fully-grown elves and warriors," the Elvenking said, still pleasant in the face of the adviser's wrath. "I feel no need to keep track of their every move.""You..." Amon growled.A sharp rap on the door interrupted whatever the irate elf was going to say. Snickering internally but calm and detached outside, Thranduil bid the newcomer to enter. Esgal walked into the room, bowing slightly to the King."Esgal." the Elvenking greeted warmly, knowing that the violet-eyed elf would not have come back if the Sindar's children were not yet out of the forest. "I see that you have returned. Nestor is quite angry at you."The assassin shrugged. "No offense, Elvenking, but I would not have returned if not for the men I encountered at the edge of the wood. They were being chased by orcs after they stumbled upon them while they were out hunting. I assisted them and brought them here. One of them is wounded and is being looked after by Nestor now. The others are waiting in the Council room for you to address them.""You let men into Mirkwood?" Amon almost shrieked. "You have no right to grant outsiders passage into the Sanctuary! Unless..." He glared at the assassin, eyes cold with realization. "...unless the missing Royals gave their permission."In an expression remarkably similar to Thranduil's, Esgal rose his eyebrows at the adviser. "Why would I need the Royals' permission to bring people into Mirkwood?""Don't pretend you were not with them!" Amon snarled. "If you assisted them then you have broken the laws put down by this Council and you will be—""Are you threatening me?" Esgal asked pleasantly.His eyes flickered, and for a moment Thranduil swore they turned a dark purple, almost black. Amon balked, paling slightly as he remembered exactly who he was talking to. Esgal, the assassin and wild card that was only loyal to those he wanted to be. Thranduil had gained the assassin's respect, trust, and loyalty. The adviser had not, and yet here he was, trying to bully the dangerous young elf...Esgal turned away from Amon, looking levelly at the Elvenking with vibrant violet eyes. "You probably should not keep them waiting, my Lord. Oh, and just so you are aware, they do not think that I can speak Westron. I would prefer that they keep that belief."That one statement was enough to tell Thranduil that the assassin may have led the men here, but he did not fully trust them. The Sindar nodded in acknowledgment to his caution, leading the way with Esgal while the cowed advisers trailed behind them.The Elvenking wished he could glower at the Council to keep them in line and stop them from questioning him, but that would be rather cruel for a King. Sure, they had lost much of his respect when they went behind his back and tried to stop his children from finding Legolas, but they were still his Council and advisers. He would rather not rule them through fear. No, being insufferably pleasant and calm to the Council would be his strategy for now.Thranduil entered the Council room, where eight men were standing about awkwardly, looking around with nervous eyes. They saw the newcomers, spotted the crown upon the golden-haired elf's brow, and bowed deeply. Well, at least they were polite."Welcome to Mirkwood." the Elvenking greeted them. "Esgal has told me what occurred at our border. I trust that the healers are looking after your friend?""Yes, my Lord." the foremost man said, obviously the leader of the little group. "Thank you for letting us seek refuge in your Palace.""Orcs are the enemies of us all, and we would not leave you alone out in the cold." Thranduil said. "Please, may I know the names of the guests within my home?""Of course, my Lord." the spokesperson said hurriedly. "I am Jodac. My companions are Koun, Cynbel, Eoghan, Arlen, Cathasach, Aedus, and Odhfin. Elisedd is the one who is currently recuperating in your Halls of Healing."Thranduil nodded politely, studying each of them with piercing blue eyes. Jodac was properly respectful and calm. Koun seemed wary and tense, looking at the elves with open suspicion and narrowed eyes. Cathsach, Aedus, and Odhfin were also wary, but not showing open suspicion and hostility like Koun. Cynbel smiled hesitantly at the elves and bowed slightly, nervous but trying to be polite. Eoghan looked too terrified to move. Arlen was nudging him with an exasperated look on his face. And the wounded one, Elisedd was off in the Halls of Healing. The Elvenking wondered if he felt uncomfortable among the elves."While your friend recovers, you may stay in the guest wing of the Palace." the Sindar told the hunters. Once he is well, it is up to you what you will do. I am guessing that you all have families you wish to return to?""Yes." Jodac said softly. "I have a son waiting for me back in our village."Thranduil' blue eyes softened slightly at his words. "You will be reunited with him soon. Galion will show you to your rooms, as well as tell you where everything can be found within the Palace grounds."The men bowed again, some a hair after the others. "Thank you for your hospitality, my Lord." Jodac murmured.The Elvenking left then, Esgal once again walking at his side while the three members of the Council were behind."(Esgal,)" Thranduil said. "(What do you think of the hunters?)"The assassin mulled over the question before replying. "(I do not trust them, but I do not mistrust them. I have not gained enough information from them to see whether or not they are a threat. It appears to be true that they were indeed hunting when they were accosted by orcs, but I do not know enough of their story to tell whether they are lying about certain things.)"Thranduil's brow furrowed. "(They bother you. What is making you uneasy?)"Esgal hesitated. "(I will admit that it is not just them that is making me on edge. I am currently... stressed, and have had no time to deal with the source of it. However, the men are being too vague for me to not be suspicious. It could be just an unintentional lack of communication, or it could be that they are keeping secrets. Did you notice that they did not say what village they come from, or where they were hunting? I did not ask, to keep up my facade, but still, it is quite odd that they kept such details to themselves.)""(What did they say while you were walking here?)" Thranduil questioned. "(That was your reason for pretending not to know Westron, was it not?)""(That is correct.)" the violet-eyed elf said. "(Even then, they did not speak about themselves. They did not talk about their hunt, or bemoan about any game they may have lost. I did not even know half of their names until they introduced themselves to you.)""(Perhaps they are just wary of elves.)" Thranduil said mildly. "(We are as much strangers to them as they are to us.)""(Perhaps...)" the assassin echoed, sounding slightly defeated. "(...And perhaps I am just tired and overly cautious right now.)"Thranduil put a gentle hand on the young elf's shoulder, noticing the tension in his muscles. "(You may leave if you wish. Go and sort out your thoughts.)"Esgal shook his head, albeit reluctantly. "(Not yet. I think I should remain in the palace a little longer.)"The Elvenking sighed. He swore the assassin was as bad at resting and recuperating as any of the Sindar's children. "(At least go rest in your room. I will ensure that Nestor leaves you alone.)"The assassin rarely lingered in the Palace for long, but he did come often enough for the Royals to set up a permanent room for him to use if he chose to.Finally, the assassin nodded, with a small, wry smile. "(If you are willing to face the wrath of Nestor, then I truly must need sleep. All right, Elvenking Thranduil. I will go.)"Thranduil watched him depart, smiling to himself. He turned and his smile vanished, replaced by a blank look as he rose an eyebrow at the three still-hovering advisers."(Is there a reason you are following me around like lost puppies?)" he asked them.Amon frowned. "(My Lord, to continue our conversation from earlier—)""(I do not know where my three children are, I do not know where they went, and I do not know how they got out of the Palace.)"Thranduil blatantly lied to the Councilors' faces, not feeling a single ounce of guilt. They had lost his respect and trust when they had invoked the Council's Right in such a way, so he was not going to share anything to do with his family with them.The Elvenking was angry at the Councilors, the simmering, slow anger of a bitterly-held grudge. They would have to earn his trust back, something that may take quite a while if the Sindar had any say in it. He was not going to easily forgive them for trying to keep him from finding his youngest son.He walked away, dismissing them, and they did not follow him. Good choice. He went off to try to find Tollui, and have his adviser-friend explain how the Council's Right had been invoked. He was secretly worried. He wondered why Tollui had been unable to stop the unanimous vote, and why he had not come to find Thranduil after it had occurred.He searched high and low, finally tracking down his friend in one of the Palace gardens. Tollui was sitting in a tree, looking quite odd in his robes. He stared up at the sky with blank eyes, watching the passing clouds without really seeing them. Thranduil climbed up the tree and sat beside the other elf, who did not look at them.For a while, they simple stared at the clouds, listening to the soft wind as if passed through the branches of the tree."Are you angry at me?" Tollui asked softly.Thranduil shrugged. "I do not know yet."The adviser closed his eyes tightly. "You know that I had to vote 'Yes' in order for the agreement to enact the Council's Right to pass.""I am aware of that." the Elvenking said. "But I can tell that you are not happy with the Council's decision. Tollui... did they threaten you in some way?"He took a moment too long to respond. "No. They did not threaten me. However... Amon is one of the oldest advisers. He was an adviser of your father and the chosen spokesperson for the Council. He did not threaten me. He was just... forceful.""He did not do anything illegal." The adviser was quick to say when Thranduil's expression turned thunderous. "He and the other Councilors were in agreement, and I was the only one who disagreed. Amon would not let me give my reasons why the Right was unnecessary. All of them kept telling me that I was only in disagreement because I was your friend. They just kept pressuring and pushing me verbally... and I caved."Thranduil sighed anger, shock, and disbelief rushing through him. I have heard of men using such underhanded tactics to get their way, but elves? This is outrageous! To pressure one of their own into voting for something he did not believe in... its disgusting! And I thought elven politicians were different. The worst part is that there is nothing I can do, for they technically did nothing outside of their power. When did my Council become a pack of greedy mortals? If they did not have my trust before, they have lost all of it now."I believe that the Council is acting like this because they are afraid." Tollui admitted. "They are afraid of the Void and what will happen to the world and this realm if it falls. They need you to be there for them, and were terrified that you were going to run off to save the Lost Prince.""I know my duty." the Elvenking muttered. "They should have more faith in me, and my children."His friend smiled a little. "I'm guessing that a few of your children have escaped to find your son?"Thranduil finally allowed a smug smile to cross his face. "What makes you ask that?"Tollui laughed. "Nothing. I am glad that they are going to look for Legolas."They talked for a while longer before both returned to their duties. Thranduil skillfully continued to ignore and avoid the councilors he met without seeming to. He remained in his office for the rest of the day, because even a potential war did not mean he could skip reading and approving the papers that crossed his desk.As he worked, the Elvenking's thoughts turned away from irritating Councilors and questionable men, instead thinking about Iãgaw and the coming battles. Mirkwood was closed off, but surely nothing could have happened in the short period of time since the Void had come. Men would most likely be unprepared, Gondor more than Rohan due to Denethor's stubborness. As for elves, Thranduil was not sure how his kin would fare. Surely their Rings of Power would protect them somewhat.But hadn't Radagast mentioned that the One Ring was a requirement to set Iãgaw free? Did that mean that the two Ring-protected realms would be revealed to Iãgaw? Even without knowledge of the Sanctuary, Iãgaw could see the immortal, Light elves as the greatest threat... Thranduil felt a shiver of foreboding at the thought. He hoped that the other realms still stood.At least, the Elvenking knew that the dwarves would be prepared to fight the Darkness. Mirkwood's close allies had been alert and ready for years, never letting down their guard. Erebor, Laketown and Dale were all placed between Mirkwood and the Dark Lands.Would that help or hinder any defenses the dwarves may take against the Void? If the worst came to pass, the people living there could find refuge in Mirkwood. This realm was no longer just the elves' because it was meant to be a Sanctuary to all of the Free People.Thranduil sighed and shook his head, almost laughing aloud at how greatly things had changed. Years ago, he would not think twice about other realms and Races in Middle-earth, yet here he was worrying and planning to help them when they needed it.The "when" was most definitely not an "if". Unless a miracle happened and the Void was destroyed before he turned his attention to the eastern lands of Middle-earth, the dwarf and men neighbors of Mirkwood would need the elven realms assistance. They were not lucky enough to be left out of the coming war.The Council might plan to let the other realms fall, but Thranduil had no intention of doing that. If their allies needed help, Mirkwood would answer. It was not just about his realm anymore. It was about saving Middle-earth.The Elvenking slowly realized how much time had passed, his candle melted down to a mere stub. The golden-haired elf sighed and stretched, standing. He winced a little as his body protested. He really had been sitting too long.That is what happens when one thinks too deeply about the grand scale of things, he thought. Tomorrow I should go out into the forest. Radagast says that the shadowed trees are our allies now. I would like to speak with them, about our defenses... And about Legolas, to see if they know anything about what happened to him. Surely the ones close to where Dol Guldur stood must know something.He turned a corner, heading to his room. Odd, but he thought that there would be more guards patrolling the halls. Perhaps the Councilors had decided no more Royals were planning on leaving the realm to find Legolas.The Elvenking hoped his three children succeeded in their search. Preferably without being hurt, or— even worse— killed. He would not be able to handle finding his youngest son, only to have another child be lost in the search...No. He would not spend every day fearing that one of his children had truly died. He would believe in their ability to survive their quest. They were the ones worrying about finding Legolas. It was Thranduil's job to worry about the realm, and prove to the advisers that he had not been planning on abandoning Mirkwood.He could not spend his days thinking about how much he wished he was with his three children, searching for the Lost Prince. His duty— no matter how much he despised it right now— was to lead Mirkwood. And that was what he would do.He turned into a new hall, blinking at the sudden darkness. Had Galion forgotten to light the candles again? He was probably in the cellars, downing bottles of wine like there was no—Hands grabbed Thranduil from behind, two on each of his arms. A third pair pressed something over his nose and mouth at the same time another one hit him in the gut. The Elvenking breathed in sharply in response to the blow, a cloying, sweet scent entering his lungs.A sleeping drug.Thranduil lashed out blindly with his foot, the drug already taking affect, but managed to land a blow on one of his attackers. He heard a sharp curse in Westron, and responded with a mental curse of his own.His attackers were men. They were the hunters. Apparently men could be better actors than the elf had given them credit for.Two strong pairs of hands held him as he silently struggled, the fourth man keeping the cloth pressed over his nose and mouth. He tried not to breathe but it was difficult, the drug he had inhaled already making him tired and dizzy. Thranduil's eyes fluttered, weakness creeping through his body, and he sagged, unable to stand up any longer.He should have known not to trust the men. He should have kept a closer eye on them, or insisted that they be guarded. But he had not, and had brushed away Esgal's vague concerns. Now, he was paying for it.Although he did not truly know the hunters, the Elvenking still felt bitterly betrayed. He admitted to himself that he had felt a connection with Jodac, for both of them had children. He had a let his guard down, and allowed strangers into his home.He was such a fool.The Sindar collapsed to the ground, blurry vision barely able to make out the man approaching him. The hunter stopped in front of the weakened Elvenking. He no longer had his act of courtesy and gratefulness, instead smirking coldly down at the golden-haired elf."Well met, Elvenking," Jodac said coldly.A booted foot slammed into Thranduil's head, and everything went black.LOTRLOTRLOTRLegolas woke to frantic shouts. He snapped from sleep to wakefulness in a heartbeat, leaping to his feet with his knives drawn. It was nighttime, his room lit only by the moonlight shining through the window. Apparently he had fallen asleep and slept through the day. The assassin exited his room and entered the hall. Elves were running about in panic, eyes wide with fear. Legolas stopped the closest warrior, an elf he did not recognize."What is happening? Are we under attack?" the violet-eyed elf asked urgently.He could not sense any Dark auras, but he did feel like something was absent..."The Elvenking is missing!" the warrior said in a rush.Legolas went still, mind going blank. "What?"The other elf nodded rapidly, terror in his expression. "Apparently the hunters we rescued took him—"The assassin was already moving, thoughts and emotions in turmoil. Thranduil had been taken. By the men that he had led to the Elvenking's home. Guilt, betrayal, and anger rushed through the violet-eyed elf simultaneously. A small gasping sound escaped his lips and he pressed a hand over his mouth.If anything happened to Thranduil, it would be his fault.He had been the one to lead the men here. He had been the one who had failed to gather sufficient information on them. He had been the one who had been sleeping when he should have been watching the hunters. Now the Elvenking had been taken from his home, from the place he should have been safest. The men had gotten to their target without even a struggle.It was all his fault.Legolas had not had time to sort through his turbulent emotions. He had not had time to process the events of the past couple days. He had fallen asleep the moment he had laid down on the bed in his room, lost to dreamless oblivion until he had been abruptly awoken.The stress, the anger, the guilt, the grief, the pain, the loss, the joy, the confusion. It swarmed him like a hurricane, flooding and drowning him as the same thought repeated itself in his head. It was his fault. It was his fault. It was his fault.Legolas knew he could not let his emotions overwhelm him. Not now, when he needed to be at his best. He had to rescue the Sindar. He had to be in control.The assassin inhaled, exhaled, just breathed... and slammed the door on his emotions, just like how Ciaran taught him to. His mind cleared, cold and calculating, as all fear and worry was cast away. There were no emotions to distract him now. All that mattered was completing his mission: to locate and rescue the Elvenking of Mirkwood.The pale blonde-haired elf located the Crown Prince with his sixth sense. He was down in the dungeons, alongside one of the hunters. Most likely it was the wounded one, the one that could not capture the King with the others. His injury would have prevented him from assisting.Legolas walked past the running elves without acknowledging any of them. He headed down to the dungeons, halting next to the Royal. The silver-haired elf jumped when he spotted the assassin, then sighed."Esgal. I am guessing that you have heard about what has happened?"The elf nodded, but did not speak.The Crown Prince ran a hand through his hair. "The men took my father but we don't know where they went or why they captured him. They left the injured one, Elisedd, behind. He isn't talking, and we do not have time to properly interrogate him."The assassin looked into the cell that held the hunter. His wound was bandaged and he looked slightly rumpled. His expression was sneering and cold. The man in the cell was a far cry from the nervous hunter that had accepted the elves' help hours before. Elisedd did not look nervous or afraid now. He only looked grim, and determined to keep his secrets until he went to his grave.He would not succeed."I will get the information you seek." Legolas said in an emotionless and cold voice.The Crown Prince glanced at him before nodding hesitantly. "All right..."The assassin entered the cell. He did not approach the prisoner, merely leaning against the wall next to the door. He did not speak, only stood and watched the man.Elisedd looked back at him with scornful eyes, no sign of trepidation or fear in his expression. He was sitting on a cot not far from the back wall, hands clasped in front of him. "You're that one that can't speak Westron." the man scoffed. "How are you supposed to find out anything?"The pale blonde-haired elf did not reply. He merely stared at the prisoner."I'll never talk anyway," the man sneered. "You're wasting your time."The assassin did not respond. His violet gaze did not waver."I cannot wait until my Master slaughters the lot of you, elf." Elisedd continued coldly. "I just hope he shows you your King's corpse before he kills you all!"The elf did not reply, move, or even blink. His gaze did not stray from the prisoner. To be honest, the blank stare was beginning to unnerve the man. The hunter looked back at the elf and found his attention riveted on the assassin's violet eyes. The longer he looked at them, the more he could swear that they were darkening, turning from a deep violet to an even darker plum shade.Elisedd swallowed and shifted, but was unable to tear his eyes away from the unnatural violet orbs. He blinked rapidly, the image of the eyes appearing in his mind whenever his eyelids closed. As the prisoner watched, the elf's eyes seemed to change, something entering their purple — now almost black— depths. Those eyes aged in front of him, an ancient danger and power surfacing, along with a terrible glint that could only be described as predatory.This could not be the innocent-looking, smiling elf that had led the hunters to the Elvenking's Palace. This elf was too dangerous, too cold, too murderous to be the same! The man's heartbeat sped up and and an increase in perspiration made his palms sticky. His breathing quickened and his head turned slightly as if he were trying to break eye contact with the elf, but found that he could not.Legolas remained a silent spectator, a predator waiting to strike. A cold, calculating look entered his unnatural dark violet eyes and the prisoner knew that the elf was thinking of ways to break and kill him. The stillness of the other was scaring the man. It was not the serene or patient stillness of a calm day, but the dangerous absence of motion before the release of an avalanche.The man found that he could not breathe, his panic rising as surely as if he were fleeing a warg. As it were, his flight instincts were screaming at him to run away. But this was one enemy he could not run from. Elisedd leaned back in his chair as far as he could, frozen as efficiently as a mouse under a viper's gaze. All of this, the motionless immortal watched, dark violet eyes never breaking away from his.Then, the elf moved, only the tiny forward shift of his weight.And the prisoner snapped.Elisedd jerked backwards, falling to the floor, and scrabbled away until his back hit the wall."I'll talk! I'll talk!" the man screamed. "I'll tell you everything you want to know! Just get him away from me!"The Crown Prince entered the room, glaring at the hunter with icy blue eyes. "Esgal is not leaving until you tell us what you want to know. Where have your allies taken the Elvenking? Why have they captured him? Who is your Master?"The man shifted so that he was as far away from the assassin as possible. The elf was still staring at him with those eyes, eyes that promised pain and death while somehow remaining blank and emotionless."We were sent by the White Wizard Saruman to capture the Elvenking. He knows that the Sanctuary will collapse if the one of the Royals dies. He plans on showing the Elvenking to the Void. They have gone South, in the direction of Dol Guldur."The Crown Prince turned to Esgal, only to find the space he had occupied was empty.The assassin was already gone.LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: Well. That escalated quickly. O_O' And just when Thranduil was being all optimistic... he's kidnapped by the men he trusted in his home, only a few hours after letting them in. Yeesh.I tried to limit the exposure to Iãgaw this chapter because he freaks me out, and I know he scares many of you. I'm both proud of and horrified with myself that I made a villain that scares the heck out of me whenever I write about him. Poor Tollui got peer-pressured into voting yes. The Councilors are jerks. :(Thank you for all of the wonderful reviews!Responses to Guest reviews:To "Bebeyeah": Thank you. Someone finds out very soon...To "EventingRules": Thanks!To "emi": Thanks! You'll have the answer to your first question next chapter. The question about the men was pretty much answered above. There will be a Fellowship, and some people will know who Esgal is by then, but not all.To "Aisha": Thank you! She changed her opinion a tiny bit. Just a little. Aragorn will be back in a couple chapters.To "Naomi": Thanks!To "Eden": Thank you! He kind of knows that violet is not his natural eye-color at the back of his mind, but he cannot remember what color his eyes used to be. That's actually brought up in a couple chapters. :)To "Em": Thanks! :DTo "ethuil": Thank you!To "Anony-Mouse": Thank you! I've never heard of "Positively Dark". I'll go look it up...To "Kryst": Thank you! I remember that about Mirkwood now! Good. That will help in the future, though it won't keep Iãgaw out for long. Bereneth's reaction is going to be interesting.Please review!


********** Page 30 **********

Chapter Twenty-Nine: MercilessThranduil woke with a pounding headache. His body ached, particularly his head and neck, though he could not recall a reason why he would hurt in such places. He was in an uncomfortable position, bent over something that made the world rock and buck beneath him. He was moving? No, he was... being carried.Lids too heavy for him to even attempt to open his eyes, the Elvenking could only frown as he felt the arm across his back as... someone carried him. Why was he being hauled about like a sack of potatoes? It was rather undignified, he supposed distantly. Unless he had been injured and his warriors had to hurry him away with haste...Except he had not been with warriors. Memory returned in a rush and Thranduil forced his eyes open. His head protested as light and color assaulted his vision and pressing pain made itself known behind his eyes. He did not care, for he was being carried by the largest man in the hunting party. The hunting party that had taken him from his home.That kick to the head, courtesy of Jodac, must have been having lasting affects, for Thranduil found the situation to be distant and funny, as if he was not being kidnapped. He, the great Elvenking, had been taken by surprise in his home and been captured. How had that happened?Thraduil's thoughts sobered and sorted themselves out, his mind clearing as his senses calmed. He was in a bad situation, with "bad" being a serious understatement. He did not know who the men worked for or why they had taken him, but he doubted it was to give the warriors of Mirkwood something to do in their spare time.The only good news was that the hunters were not planning on killing him. If their goal had been assassination, they could have succeeded without taking him out of the Palace and into the forest. The task of getting the Elvenking out of the Palace would not have been easy, and the blue-eyed elf wondered how they had managed it with all the extra guards...He felt a chill as realization snuck up on him. Either these men were trained so well that they had managed to sneak past all of the warriors— and by "well", he meant Esgal's level of skill— or they had killed any guards that they had come across on the way out.The Elvenking closed his eyes, bitterness rising at the thought of the latter. He prayed he would not come home, only to be gravely told of their losses. But now was not the time to worry and feel guilt. He had to take stock of his situation, and see if there was a chance for escape.Thraduil noted that his hands and feet were bound, and any weapons he had had on his person were all absent. From his sword to the dagger in his boot, all weapons had been taken from him. He still had hand-to-hand combat to resort to, but in order to use it he would have to be free of the ropes, and his carrier.His mind was mostly clear but his body still felt sluggish. He could barely move his head or open his eyes. Had the men drugged him somehow? Thranduil kept his eyes closed and his features slack, surprised none of the men had noticed his slight movements. He noticed they were speaking in Westron, muttering softly to each other, and listened in on their conversation."I don't like these trees, Jodac." one man— Koun?— was whispering, voice taut with a mix of nerves and suspicion. "They're like the ones that moved to let us in.""All of the trees in Mirkwood are like that," the leader of the men explained, voice angry, bitter, and lacking any warmth. "Its the elves' blasted magic. They make things unnatural and strange, meddling with powers that can make a man loose his mind. If the elf wakens, don't let him talk, or he'll set the trees on us."In his voice, the Elvenking could hear the undercurrent of fear. It was a fear borne of ignorance, a fear of the unknown. He had heard it many times before when those that believed rumors spread about elves spoke in whispers about the dangers of the Firstborn.How they stole children in the night and replaced them with malevolent or possessed spirits. How they could seduce men into abandoning their families and wives, making them stay in the forest forever. How they were great and terrible sorcerers and witches, using their spells to manipulate nature, twisting it and awakening it in ways that were just not natural. How they were somehow to blame for hardship, pestilence, famine and plague, these woes caused by an elf-witch with a grudge.It was now apparent that Jodac was as prejudiced and fearful of "elf-magic" as many other ignorant mortals. How the man had managed to act kind and intrigued by the immortals was beyond the Elvenking.I cannot believe I ever fell for this man's friendly persona, Thranduil thought scornfully. I was distracted by his mask and smile when I should have looked into his eyes. I am sure I would have been able to spot hatred there, for no man like him can hide their fear of the unknown. Still, his prejudiced thoughts and paranoia make him all the more dangerous.Still, the men did have a right to fear the trees around them. The Elvenking could hear them now, their silent anger and wordless hissing replaced by curiosity and understanding. Through the trees he could sense that he was south of Dol Guldur, almost to the edge of the woods. That had been the darkest part of Mirkwood for a long time. The difference in the shadowed trees was startling, and even though Thranduil was not a sensor, he could feel the change within them. Even now they began to whisper to him, confused and concerned.Elvenking, they murmured. Chanter. Awakener. You helped set us free.Yes, Thranduil told them mentally. It was a pity the men did not know that communication with the trees need not be verbal. I am pleased to be able to speak with you at last. I am glad that you are now free.Free... the shadowed trees murmured, rustling their leaves. There was a shift in their consciousnesses, reminding Thranduil of someone narrowing their eyes. The men carry you strangely, Elvenking. We did not know why they run beneath our boughs so we did not attack. Why do they hurry?Thranduil hesitated, wishing he had talked to Esgal more about speaking with shadowed trees. He remembered the assassin mentioning that it was best not to show weakness around them, but that was before the Chant. He could not move much on his own, so he would have to take a risk.The men are not my allies. They are my enemies. They have captured me... and I am afraid that I cannot free myself.The forest shifted, a low, threatening sound sounding through the trees. It took Thranduil a moment to realize that the shadowed trees were hissing, snarling and growling in anger. The hunters paused, looking around themselves nervously. The Elvenking wondered if they too could hear the trees' anger, or if the sudden movements of the wooden limbs were what gave them pause.Bad men, the shadowed trees snarled. Bad men like bad-nasty orcs and Spiders! Always taking taking taking! How dare they take Elvenking's freedom! Nasty evil bad men! Pick them off, one by one...They chuckled, cruel and cold, and it was then that Thranduil fully understood what Esgal meant when he said the trees were sadistic, and what Radagast meant when he claimed they were still Dark.The shadowed trees moved, limbs whipping and bending loudly like creaking wood. The hunters gathered close together, weapons drawn with the man carrying Thranduil in the middle."What's going on?" one man shouted, the Sindar recognizing Koun's voice.Thranduil cracked his eyes open, coldly amused by the fear in the men's faces. Did they honestly think they could just carry him past the trees and the trees would not do anything?With a snap one tree lashed out, its long, wiry limb as purposeful and sentient as a living creature's. Koun screamed in terror as a black limb wrapped around his waist, yanking him up into the treetops and out of sight. Leaves rustled and the trees snarled, a loud cracking sound making the men below jump.A moment later, Koun was thrown back in front of the men, eyes blank and neck brutally snapped. The hunters cried out in shock and fear, cringing away from the still-hissing trees. With a quick whip, another tree, grabbed a second hunter, yanking him, screaming, out of sight. The body was not returned this time.Before the trees could strike again, Jodac hauled Thranduil off of his carrier's back. The Elvenking slumped, unable to hold his body upright, but the lead hunter kept a firm grip on him. The Sindar felt more than saw the man place a knife against the elf's neck. He also felt Jodac's hand trembling, and heard his rapid breaths."Leave us be you Morgoth-spawned trees!" the man snarled, voice shaking the slightest bit. "Attack us again and I'll slit his throat!"The trees did not move, and were silent. Their rage built and built, but they did not attack. They knew how to spot a desperate man, and if not for him threatening their Elvenking, they would have felt glee at his terror. How dare the mortal threaten their Elvenking, one of the ones who freed them! The trees' opinion of men dropped drastically, their trust in the race depleting.The silver-gold Megilag-Prince had let the men in, and Daelas had led the men to the King, but the men were bad. Daelas had not known. Megilag-Prince had not known. Elvenking had not known. But the men were still bad. The trees resolved not to let any men into their Sanctuary, unless many Chanters said it was safe.But these men... these bad men... they would not be let out. No matter how much they threatened, no matter how much they shouted and screamed, the trees would not let the bad men out of their Sanctuary. The trees would not let these men live...!Suddenly their anger vanished, replaced by a feeling that Thranduil could only describe as sadistically smug.Daelas comes, they purred. Daelas comes. Bad men will pay. They will pay dearly. We do not need to kill bad men. Daelas will kill them all...The trees became silent and unmoving, as still as mortals thought trees were meant to be. The hunters relaxed, thinking they were safe, but Thranduil's mind was reeling. Daelas. Shadow Leaf. There was only one person that could be.He almost felt bad for the men. Actually, he did not feel pity for them at all.As he was picked up once more, the men not checking to see if he was conscious, Thranduil smirked internally, despite the lasting weakness in his limbs.Daelas was coming. All he had to do was wait.LOTRLOTRLOTRThe assassin caught up to the men just south of Dol Guldur. The fools were lost, unable to use the sun to track their path or figure out where they were. A suggestion to the shadowed trees had been enough for them to purposely change positions and stay in "landmark" poses, only helping to further confuse the hunters.There were no animal prints to track down here, and quick brushes with soft leaves could take away any trails the men laid down to slow their escape. The men had lost the moment the trees turned against them. As if the shadowed trees would have even let them out once they reached the edge of the woods anyway. But they would not make it closer to their destination.Death was here.The men had split up, the fools, trying to find the path they had been following. Jodav was with the Elvenking, the Sindar's breathing slow but his aura suggesting he was conscious. The assassin did not wonder about what what was wrong with the elf. He would deal with that later, after the six threats he faced were eliminated.The first hunter was directly beneath him. Legolas let his body drop, landing on the man with his knives plunging into his target's upper back. The man fell forward, the sound of his body's fall muffled by the soft dirt. A quick, silent death, with was a lot more than the hunters deserved. But vengeance and anger were not a part of the assassin right then. All that mattered was the kill. All threats need and would be executed. For the sake of his objective, there was no room for dramatics. He would strike without mercy, before his enemies even knew he was there.The second man was in his sight, but the other could not see him. Even if the hunter was facing in his direction instead of away, he still would not stand a chance. Legolas was a ghost, a silent shadow hidden among darkness and leaves. He was the hunter, the men were the prey. And they would not even have time to scream before their lives were expunged.He ghosted over to the second target, covering the man's mouth and severing his spine in a single fluid motion. The second hunter jerked once before going limp. Swift, silent, effective, and without a fuss. That was the way. The assassin laid the body down and moved on.Twenty yards away, a quick stab to the back killed the third man, silent and without a fuss. The assassin turned, throwing a small dagger as the next target entered his line of sight. The man slumped, revealing another, but Legolas was already up in the trees, landing behind the fifth mortal.He slipped a garote over the hunter's head, pulling it tight. The man gasped silently once, air cut off, before the thin, sharp metal sliced into his neck, as effective as a knife. Legolas unwound the garote, the fifth target eliminated.Now only one target was left.The hunter's leader had realized that something was wrong. He had the mostly-limp Elvenking upright, a knife against the Sindar's throat as he looked around at the still and silent forest with nervous, fear-filled eyes. His comrades were not answering and he was afraid.A fearful man was dangerous, but Legolas was unconcerned. He did notice that, in his tension, the man was pressing the blade too hard, a small trickle of blood dripping down the Elvenking's neck. The assassin's lip curled. That would not do at all.Silent, cold, and deadly, the assassin was behind Jodac, almost as if he had appeared out of thin air. Before the man could so much as flinch, the detached elf jabbed a pressure point on his hand, forcing him to release the knife.A kick sent it flying away, a following jab releasing the man's hold on the Elvenking. The golden-haired elf fell to the ground, still weakened by whatever the men had done, but Legolas did not go to him.In front of him, back to the assassin, Jodac opened his mouth to speak.Cold and apathetic, he assassin took his head.Without dramatics or unnecessary action, the deed was done. The men probably did not even know who had killed them, but such things did not matter to Legolas. Was he supposed to let them see who it was that killed them? Was there supposed to be some type of poetic justice? No. He was an assassin. H followed his mission. The Elvenking's captors were dead. The mission was done. And that was that.The Sindar was sitting up, leaning heavily on one arm with a small bead of blood drying on his throat. He looked at Legolas, relief in his features, only to freeze as their eyes met. Something there scared the Elvenking, his blue eyes widening, but the assassin did not care. Then the golden-haired elf was wobbly moving towards him, placing a had on his arm. Legolas tensed at the contact but did not lash out. The Elvenking was his objective. His safety was the assassin's mission."Esgal." the Sindar was saying in a shaky voice. "Esgal, its over. Come back. It's all right."Legolas stared at him neutrally, though he did feel a bit of... confusion. Was the Elvenking upset? His eyes said that he was. Wait... he was upset. That... mattered.The assassin blinked rapidly. The mission was over. The threats were gone. Emotions were no longer a liability. The pale blonde-haired elf breathed, gently lowering the door that sealed away his emotions. Emotions returned to Legolas's eyes, the cold, calculating dark purple becoming its normal, bright violet shade.Everything was fine now, and he was back. There was no need for his assassin-mentality any longer. This day, at least. But along with the returning emotions came all of the baggage and stress that he had locked away with them. Legolas trembled, suddenly feeling weak, and collapsed to his knees, breathing harshly. He struggled to sort out his thoughts as a pale and tired Thranduil hovered about him, but everything was a turbulent mess. Anger, sadness, grief, joy, longing, and most of all guilt, guilt, guilt overwhelmed him."I'm sorry." was all he could say to the blue-eyed elf. "I'm sorry..."Thranduil was confused, his expression clear on his face, but he put a reassuring hand on the young elf's shoulder. "Esgal, you did nothing wrong." He glanced at the dead man next to them, then back at the shaking assassin. "You did nothing wrong."Legolas shook his head, unable to speak. That was not what he was apologizing for, not really. Yes, he grieved for the lives he had taken so coldly, but he did not regret it. The men had tried to take someone he cared about to the enemy, and that was unforgivable. No, Legolas was apologizing for leading them to the Elvenking, for letting them in, for failing to protect Thranduil in his own home. But he could not voice the reasons for his apologies, because he was just so tired and drained from all that had occurred.Warm arms wrapped around him and he blinked in surprise as the Elvenking— his robes covered in dirt and hair out of place— held him gently, murmuring soft comfort in his ears. Legolas closed his eyes, stunned by the safety and familiarity he felt. He calmed and quieted, merely staying in Thranduil's embrace and trying to place where he had felt such safety before. The thought reminded him of his still-lost memories and he almost became hysterical once more. Ai Valar, he was such an emotional wreak right now."Shh..." Thranduil murmured, soft and gentle like a father must act. "Its all right... Just breathe, Esgal. Breathe..."Legolas breathed and calmed, but he did not try to lock away his emotions again. He decided that doing so while he was in such turmoil had been a bad idea, and vowed not to have a repeat of this incident if he could help it. If only he had had a chance to face his problems, and sort out his feelings. But things had happened too fast.Seeing the young elf was calmer, Thranduil smiled a little. "Now, how about we start heading back, yes? The advisers and my children must be worried. Although..." He frowned down at himself, partly annoyed, partly amused. "...our trip may take a while. I still can't seem to move very well.""I'll help you." Legolas said softly.He stood and offered his hand to Thranduil, who took it. The Elvenking leaned heavily on the assassin. Legolas felt relieved that the Sindar was no longer afraid of him, his fear melting away to be replaced by trust and concern. He was not asking questions either, which was good since the violet-eyed elf was not sure he could answer them.They slowly made their way north, Legolas wondering when they would run into a patrol of warriors. Surely Aglar must have sent a group out to follow the assassin? Their pace was agonizingly slow, Thranduil stumbling every few steps, but the assassin kept him secure and upright.Around them, the shadowed trees were shrieking and cackling in glee. Nasty-bad men are deeeeeeeaaaaaad... they sneered. Though bad men died too quickly... Daelas should have killed them slow...Legolas winced, not quite at their words, but at the reminder of how coldly he had killed the men.Thranduil glanced sidelong at him and spoke softly to the assassin. "I now see what you meant by the shadowed trees having... interesting things to say.""They can be unnerving." the violet-eyed elf admitted. "But they are good allies to have. Especially now that they are on the Light's side fully and consciously.""Indeed." Thranduil murmured. His eyes narrowed and his back straightened, a determined glint entering his blue gaze. "Before we head back to the Palace or meet a patrol, there is something I need to do. Will you take me to Dol Guldur?"The Elvenking was pale and shaky, barely able to stand on his own, but the grim determination and stubbornness in his expression was not something Legolas would argue with.The assassin smiled slightly, despite the chill and anger he felt at the sound of the name of that cursed place. "All right. We're going to pass it anyway."LOTRLOTRLOTRA half-hour later, the Elvenking stood in black rubble and destroyed stone, looking around at the demolished place that had been his son's prison so long ago. Nothing had been left standing, the Chant destroying all except the single shadowed oak tree that stood in what may have once been a courtyard.Esgal stood beside Thranduil, tense and looking around with an unreadable expression. His eyes blazed with purple fire and dark thoughts, his teeth almost bared. The blue-eyed elf could tell the young assassin did not like it here. At all. Still, Esgal did not complain, and faithfully helped the determined Elveking over to the shadowed oak when he asked. In fact, the assassin looked quite happy to be beneath this particular tree's boughs.Thranduil sat down heavily at the oaks's roots, leaning against the black bark. Perhaps the Nazgûl had realized an elfling would not last long here without nature, so they had purposely planted the oak here. The Elvenking felt no gratefulness towards his enemies for the act, though it did give him hope that his son had at least been semi-all right when he was here.With everything else destroyed, there was only one way to find out anything about Legolas now. Thranduil placed his hand on the tree, opening himself up to his new connection with the shadowed oak. It was startled by the contact for a moment, then relaxed as it recognized him.Elvenking. Liberator. Chanter.Yes. Thranduil replied silently. I am glad to be able to speak with you at last, shadowed one. There is information I seek that only you may be able to provide.I will help Elvenking. The tree said solemnly, limbs twitching. Elvenking is Chanter and Daelas-friend.Thranduil glanced at Esgal, who could only hear the tree's part of the conversation. The assassin smiled in encouragement. The golden-haired elf's stomach was twisted with tension and his heart pounded in his chest. This was it. Either the tree would know about Legolas, or it would not. Either he would gain some insight into what had happened to his son, or there would be nothing. Thranduil took a deep, calming breath before speaking to the tree once more.My son, Legolas, was taken here. He had pale blonde hair and silver-blue eyes. Do you know him?There was a beat of terrible silence.Then the tree brightened, perking up with happiness. Daelas! It draped a limb over the pale blonde-haired elf's shoulder. The assassin looked confused by the action.Thranduil sighed. No. Not Daelas.The shadowed tree drooped. Not Daelas?Not Daelas. The Elvenking repeated gloomily. Wrong colored eyes...He let his head hit the oak's trunk, staring blankly up at the sky. So even here he could find out nothing about his missing son. Thranduil dearly hoped that his three questing children would be able to gather information on Legolas's whereabouts if he was not in Minas Morgul. The Sindar sighed again, feeling useless and helpless.Ai Valar, he just wanted his son to be home and safe!Daelas. The tree above them said sadly, continually poking and brushing its branches over the assassin. Daelas not Legolas.An expression that was a mixture of shock, hurt, and a grimace crossed Esgal's face, so quickly that Thranduil almost did not catch it. He felt the tree wince.Sorry Daelas. I did not mean to make you sad-more. You sad-angry-hurt now. No memories, no family... sad sad sad.Thranduil turned and looked at Esgal, really looked at him, and saw the grief in the young elf's eyes and the pain and tension in his posture. The Elvenking placed a hand on the assassin's arm, pushing away his own problems in order to focus on the now obviously burdened elf in front of him."Here I am, lost in my own woes, when you are also greatly burdened." the golden-haired elf said softly. "What is troubling you, Esgal?"The assassin pressed his lips together his expression a mix between a scowl and a sad frown. "Many things are bothering me at the moment."Normally, Thranduil would have let it go, trusting the young elf to deal with things on his owntalk to Glorfindel, but the Balrog Slayer was nowhere nearby this time, and he could tell by Esgal's emotional eyes that there was too much weighing down on his mind. He had said that he had not had time to process his emotions, and apparently he still had not. The image of the assassin in near-hysterics planted itself into Thranduil's mind, and he knew he could not let Esgal deal with his thoughts and emotions alone this time."Please, Esgal." the Sindar insisted when the violet-eyed elf refused to say more. "Tell me. You are overwhelmed, I can tell. Please, tell me what has made you so..." Upset. Angry. Lost.The assassin brought his legs up to his chest, wrapping his arms around them. He did not look at the King, instead gazing at nothing. Thranduil sat beside him patiently, and simply waited for the other to speak."I found my memories. I do not have them back, but I discovered that they are trapped within my mental shield, hidden even from me." the assassin admitted at last, miserable. "It turns out that I am the cause of my own amnesia, and there is nothing I can do to reverse the process without great risk to myself."His eyes closed and he shivered as if remembering something terrible. "When I found my memories, I was almost dead. I was only able to retrieve one before Radagast pulled me back with a healing spell. When I did regain that memory, my mind blanked completely, and for a second, I lost everything."The terror in the assassin's voice made a chill go up Thranduil's spine."I couldn't remember who I was." Esgal continued shakily. "I could not remember my past— any of it. I couldn't remember my friends or the people I have grown to love or anything. It was terrifying."Now frustration entered his voice, bitter and filled with loathing. "I almost lost my life and the rest of my memories for a single new one, and it's not even a memory! It's a fact, a stupid little name that won't ever help me find out who I was before! I almost lost everything for a blasted memory that isn't useful at all!" His voice cracked, brittle with disappointment."At least it is something you did not have before," the Sindar chided gently. "The price may or may not prove to be worth it in the future."His curiosity was officially piqued. What name could the assassin have gained that he was so upset at its apparent uselessness? What name could he have gained that would not help him find out something at least?"Would you share with me what you discovered?" the Elvenking asked against his better judgment. It was not his business, but it also was if he wanted to help the young elf. "It is unlikely that I will be able to help, but who knows. Besides, it is always best to share with someone."Esgal looked down, anger vanishing as he turned a light shade of pink. "It is such a silly, useless thing... It tells me nothing about where I come from or who I was..."That seemed to be the only thought he could focus on, and instantly his misery was back. Thranduil hated seeing the young elf so depressed."Even the most useless memory can be more important than you know," Thranduil said wisely. "Tell me, what did you recover? Is it embarrassing?" he asked as a teasing afterthought, thinking about the assassin's earlier blush.Esgal scowled at him, not in the mood. "No! It's just pointless...""Tell me what it is and I may or may not agree with you." the Elvenking said softly. "Please, Esgal. Tell me."Thranduil waited patiently as the assassin struggled with himself once more. Hesitance and a need to tell someone warred for dominance in his expression, the Sindar spotting grief and bitter hopelessness of the young elf's face. Finally, the assassin's expression settled into a look of strained bemusement. He smiled at the golden-haired elf beside him, grim but slightly amused."All right." he said, giving in. "It turns out... that I had a pet rabbit named Floppy."LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: Expect an update on Monday or Tuesday. There's no way for me to update during the weekend. I'll accept rants, but if you insult me personally I will be pissed. Normally I'd take any insults in stride ( I know most of you don't mean them), but its been one of those days. Stupid freaking people are stupid freaking idiots...Thanks to everyone who reviewed! Sorry if I didn't respond. This story has got over 1,000 reviews now!Responses to Guest reviews:To "Kryst", "Tricky", "Ylim", "Naomi", "Fallenfire", "cool", "Anne", "Guest", "Seven", "guest 2000", "Guest" and "Aisha": Thank you!To "Guest3": Thank you! I have a reaction planned for Glorfindel when he finds out how old Esgal really is. Its gonna be hilarious. Aglar is awesome.To "Issy": Thank you! There are going to be a lot more interactions between those two in the near future.To "EventingRules": Thanks for reviewing! He may or may not be fine now.To "WhichGirlisWitch" Thank you! The trees weren't sure whether the men were enemies or not at first. You saw what happened once they figured it out.To "HeartsOfStone": Thank you! About Thranduil...To "emi" thanks! Radagast will show up again soon. He was out in the forest...To "Anony-Mouse": Thank you! Your review made me laugh after dealing with stupid people so seriously, thanks!To "Bebeyeah": Thank you! ...I'm holding you to that. :PPlease review!


********** Page 31 **********

Chapter Thirty: For His SakeThird Age 2523 (488 years ago...)Thranduil had just gotten out of a Council meeting when he found Luineth waiting for him outside of the room. His wife smiled at him, silver-blue eyes sparkling with amusement, and the Elvenking felt a great sense of foreboding."Who did Fael prank this time?" he asked immediately.The only time the Queen of Mirkwood looked so amused was when their second-youngest managed to make a fool out of someone. Like one of the advisers. Or a senior warrior. Or anyone whose reputation would quickly be tarnished by the mischievous Prince's actions. Which left Thranduil to sooth bruised egos, redirect righteous anger, and give Fael a lecture while his mother quietly smiled at their son, her actions negating anything Thranduil said in Fael's mind.Luineth laughed at the concerned expression on the Elvenking's face. "You know that Fael is on patrol right now. Unless he laid out a trap for a poor soul to fall into, then there will be no affronted elves for you to stop from hunting our son."The golden-haired elf relaxed slightly, though he remained wary. "Still, you have that look on your face, my love. What has amused you so greatly... and is it going to be at my expense?"The silver-haired elleth's lips twitched upward. "Legolas has something very important to ask you, dear. He's in the gardens. Come along."A gentle arm wrapped around Thranduil's, guiding him through the halls. The Elvenking did not resist his wife, though his mind went over a thousand possibilities of what his youngest could want. Most things he could think of would not cause Luineth such mirth...Thranduil's thoughts trailed away as he spotted his youngest, sitting in the middle of the garden with something in his arms. Even from a distance, the Elvenking could see... fur. The reason for his wife's merriment became glaringly obvious, and Thranduil suppressed a groan.Not again, he thought helplessly.Ever since his youngest elfling had been born, the golden-haired elf had prayed that Legolas would avoid this stage. Every other elfling went through it— Thranduil among them when he was small— but he had hoped with all his heart that Legolas would miraculously go through childhood without going through what Luineth called the dreaded "Can I keep it?" stage.Due to elves' closeness to nature, animals were calm in the Firstborns' presences. In fact, most were not startled or frightened by the immortals at all. Elves were naturally gifted with presences that would calm and attract the creatures of the forest, Wood-Elves in particular. More than once, Thranduil had seen one of his stern warriors walk up to a doe and gently pat it before walking away. It was an unspoken rule and policy of Mirkwood that if an elf was not hunting or on a long-term mission, they would leave animals alone. The gift to be so close and in tune with the creatures of the woods was wonderful, beautiful... and the most apparent in elven children.Due to their youth and innocence, the auras of elflings were like bait to benign forest creatures. Elven children able to approach even wounded animals without risk of fear or harm from the creature. Sometimes, animals would even seek out the calming, joyful presences they did not quite sense.In other words, animals like deer, foxes, rabbits, hedgehogs, skunks, birds, and even the occasional turtle from who knows where would wander into the Palace grounds, seeking the elflings. It was all bemusing and taken in stride by the grown elves, who found both mirth and joy in seeing the elfling's awe at the woodland creatures. The animal would be content to follow the elfling for the day, bringing great joy to the young one. But then the inevitable question would come: "Can I keep it?"Every single elfling had at least one animal come to him or her. And every single one wanted to keep it as a pet. A few animals had already found Legolas in his short life, but Thranduil, the warriors, and the staff had managed to get the creatures away from the youngest Prince before the inevitable question was asked.However, this time, it seemed like their careful vigilance had failed. For the seventh time in his long life, and the first time in over two thousand years, Thranduil was going to have to face the question once more. No wonder Luineth was looking amused.Legolas spotted his father and waved excitedly. His silver-blue eyes were wide with joy and wonder, a smile on his face. "Ada! Come see! Look at what Bereneth gave me!"So the creature had not come to him for once. Making a mental note to demand why Bereneth had decided to give the youngest Prince the animal,— They already had enough trouble keeping the forest creatures out of the house for Valar's sake!— the Elvenking knelt beside his son, looking at the tiny ball of fur in the elfling's arms.The little lump twitched, a head perking up, and innocent black eyes peered up at the golden-haired elf curiously. The creature was a little rabbit with light brown fur, no more than a baby. The rabbit's ears quivered, ramrod straight, before flopping down on the sides of its head.In his elfling's arms, it was the image of adorableness, and Thranduil struggled to keep a smile from appearing on his face. He had to be strong. He had not let any of his other children keep their "new friends", and he could not cave in.The rabbit grew disinterested in the new elf, turning back to Legolas and poking him with its nose. The pale blonde-haired elfling laughed and hugged the tiny animal."Its a baby rabbit, Ada!" Legolas snuggled the bunny, smiling in content. "Feel his fur. He's so soft."Wide silver-blue eyes looked hopefully at Thranduil and he sighed, giving in. The Elvenking reached out, gently stroking the light brown fur. The little rabbit was indeed soft, the fur soft and fluffy beneath his fingers. The rabbit calmly let the golden-haired elf pet him, eyes half-closed in contentment."Yes he is, Little Leaf." Thranduil murmured, not looking at his elfling. He had to be strong. He had to be firm. He could not let Legolas—The Elvenking looked up, and found innocent, pleading silver-blue staring at him. "Can I keep him, Ada?" the young Prince asked hopefully.And there it was. The Elvenking could not stand to look at those wide eyes, and instead looked to his wife. He froze, horror filling him, as another pair of silver-blue eyes looked at him with a near-identical expression.A smile played with Luineth's lips and she nodded at her husband, still keeping that innocent, pleading look on her face. Thranduil groaned, knowing when he was beaten. Besides, if his Queen was assisting Legolas in his attempt, she too must want the elfling to keep the rabbit."All right. You may keep him." the Elvenking told his son. "But you will have to take care of him. He is a living creature, and your responsibility. You must wash him, feed him, play with him, and love him. Can you do that?"Legolas's expression brightened, joy overtaking his features. "I promise, Ada! I know I can! Thank you!"The silver-blue eyed Prince leapt to his feet, obviously intending to dash off and show his new pet to every elf he met. Thranduil stopped his youngest from running away by gently grabbing the back of his tunic."Hold on, Little Leaf. What do you intend to name your rabbit?"Legolas blinked at him, startled by his forgetfulness. "I already picked out a name, Ada. I just didn't tell you 'cause Bereneth said you might not let me keep him but I knew you would so I named him and now I can tell you cause now he's mine!" the elfling rambled.The silver-blue eyed Prince smiled, holding up the rabbit. "His name is Floppy!"LOTRLOTRLOTRThird Age 2011 (The Present)"It turns out... that I had a pet rabbit named Floppy."Thranduil froze. The words echoed in the Elvenking's head, repeating themselves over and over. Floppy. Esgal had had a pet rabbit named Floppy when he was an elfling.But that was—But he—It could not—He could not be—The Elvenking stared at the assassin, eyes raking the young elf's face. The hair was right. The nose was right. The mouth was right. The eyes were wrong... but Esgal had said that he had had violet eyes as long as he could remember. And he could not remember anything from before his mental shield. His mental shield, which suppressed his glow, and changed his eye color.The violet eyes that were staring at him in confusion was the result of the suppressed inner light. The black eyes he had seen earlier only appeared when the assassin cut off his emotions. But there was another color, a color that Esgal could not remember...The tree. This oak tree. It had happily greeted the assassin, calling him Daelas. It had missed him. It had known him. But how could it know him? It had been in Dol Guldur... ever since Legolas came. It had known Esgal— Daelas— because the elf had grown up here. He had grown up here, in Dol Guldur. He had grown up in Darkness, trained by an assassin, but the assassin had helped him remain good in a place seeping with evil.The bits and pieces Thranduil knew about Esgal's past were coming together, new information appearing before him with such clarity he could not believe he had not seen it before. Four hundred years ago, the Witch-King had left Dol Guldur for one day. Four hundred years ago, a mysterious warrior simply known as "the Hidden Guardian" among other names had appeared within Mirkwood and the other realms.Four hundred years ago, the Witch-King had claimed Legolas was dead. But he was not dead. He had been alive. And the reason the Witch-King had lied... was because he knew that Thranduil would be crushed by his youngest's "death", but he had no body to show the Elvenking. Because the young elf he had kept alive had escaped.The coincidences that had been drifting at the edges of Thranduil's mind swarmed him, blazing and bright as they showed that they were not coincidences at all. Pale blonde hair. Raised in a Dark place. Hated orcs and particularly Nazgûl with a passion. Had an unexplainable connection with each of the Royals. Did not remember his past. Was younger than any had guessed. Kept secrets upon secrets to protect himself, not truly trusting anyone with full truths...Had a pet rabbit named Floppy.Esgal. Daelas...Legolas.Thranduil's heart pounded in a rapid, frantic beat. His mind whirled, unable to truly comprehend what he had just realized. But he knew it was true. Esgal was Daelas was Legolas, despite what the tree said.Esgal was Legolas! Legolas was Esgal! His son was here! Ai Valar he had been here the whole time! He was safe—Thranduil could not breathe. He could not breathe. He— He—He could not breathe?Thranduil opened and shut his mouth silently, a hacking cough escaping his lips. Agony ripped through his body, just as warm sticky liquid sprayed from his mouth. Blood. The Elvenking gave a gasping heave, horror washing away his joy and relief as another realization became painfully clear.His weakness. His sluggishness. The lingering ache in his limbs. These ailments were not from a drug.They were from poison.The men had poisoned him, in case they failed, most likely planning to give him the antidote once they were out of Mirkwood. But the hunters had died, and Thranduil had been rescued... with poison running through his veins.Another bolt of pain tore through Thranduil's middle and he curled up, coughing up more blood. He swayed, falling sideways, the collision with the ground more painful than it should have been. A hand touched his arm and it was like fire licking his skin. He could see the young violet-eyed elf speaking to him but he could not hear the words. His hearing had been overcome by a low roar, mixed with the pounding of his desperate heart.His vision darkened and blurred, his son's face fading rapidly from view. Panic overtook Thranduil then. No. He could not fall unconscious now! If he fell, he may not come back. He felt his lips moving but no words passed them. His throat felt clogged and choked, air unable to reach his starving lungs. But he could not give in!He had to speak. He had to tell Esgal— Legolas— who he was.My son. My son. My son...The roaring was fading, and he could no longer hear the slowing beat of his heart. All that was left was the frantic, terrified cries of the shadowed trees in his mind. As more blood trickled slowly down his chin, Thranduil struggled mentally. He tried to reach out to the trees, to tell them so they at least they could tell his son the truth...He could not do it.He failed.All hearing faded, all thoughts fled, all pain vanished... and the Elvenking went limp.LOTRLOTRLOTRLegolas froze in terror as Thranduil slumped onto the ground, fading from consciousness. His front was speckled with crimson blood, and his features were pale and horrifyingly still. For a moment, it was not the golden-haired elf that laid in front of him, but a dead Ciaran. The assassin jerked forward, searching for a pulse, and was relieved to find a fluttery beat. The Elvenking's aura was also weak and faint, but it was still there.Thranduil was not dead. He was not dead. But Legolas now knew that the Elvenking had been poisoned. The assassin struggled to think rationally— It was not Ciaran dying in front of him. The Elvenking was still alive— but could not think of what to do.Elvish spirit-energy healing was useless against poisons that were not Dark, like poison from a Morgul blade. Injuries that were physical or spiritual could be rapidly healed. The first happened through a transfer of energy that sped up the injured's haling process. The latter was a battle between Light and Dark, the healer using their energy to push back the Darkness that was poisoning a person's mind, body, and soul.But elvish energy-healing could not purge the body of poison. No amount of that type of healing would let the body recover from a deadly poison. It could reverse the physical damage done, but the poison in the body would remain. That was why antidotes to things such as Spider's poison were needed by healers such as Lord Elrond.The only other thing that could reverse and expunge the poison was a specific Wizard's spell. Legolas was not absolutely sure how it worked, but knew that Istar magic could be worked in far different ways than elvish.That left him with a choice: to go back to the men and try to find the antidote they had been intending to give the Elvenking— Elisedd had said that Saruman wanted Thranduil alive— or try to find Radagast. Both meant leaving Thranduil— a very bad thing— but the assassin may not have a choice. Because, for once, there was nothing Legolas could do. He was helpless, and he hated it.Legolas trembled slightly as he looked at the Elvenking, fear like a shadow in his mind. If he left, the Sindar could die before he came back. If he did not leave, someone he cared about would die in his arms again.The assassin was terrified, unable to decide, the burden that he was crushing him more terrible than anything he had ever faced. He could not lose someone like this again. Not ever again. He was running out of time, Valar curse it, but he could not just— He could not—A presence entered his awareness, wonderful and relieving and oh thank Eru! Legolas screamed, all of his desperation in his voice."Radagast!"The foliage to his left rustled and the Brown Wizard raced onto the grounds where Dol Guldur once stood. He took in the scene at a glance, rushing forward and kneeling next to Thranduil."The hunters did this?" the Wizard asked rapidly, all goofiness gone in the wake of grim seriousness.Legolas nodded and opened his mouth to speak, only to be stunned by the small sob that escaped his lips. Radagast looked at him, compassion in his expression, but still mostly paying attention to the Elvenking."I can help him and purge the poison in his body, but I need you to go to the men and find the antidote, just in case Thranduil still needs it. Go now!" the Wizard ordered.Legolas nodded and raced away, in the direction of the men. He stumbled a few times, tripping over a root before he kept going, fear lending speed to his tired feet. He felt something trickling down his cheek, and touched it, shocked to find that they were wet.He's going to be fine, the violet-eyed elf stubbornly told himself. He is going to be all right.But what if he was not? What if Thranduil died? It would be Legolas's fault, not just because he had let the men take the Elvenking, but because he had been unable to stay and help the Sindar. The fact that Thranduil was dying in Dol Guldur only made the young elf feel worse.He hated that place, hated it with a passion he had been unaware of until he had returned with the Elvenking. Dol Guldur may have given him Ciaran and— through the man— his skills, but it had taken so much. It was where Ciaran had died, where Legolas had been forced to suppress his inner light and had accidentally sealed away his own memories. It was where he had lived in Darkness and rage, a cold, simmering hatred in his heart that had gradually calmed over time.Legolas had been thinking about himself and Dol Guldur back then, before his escape, and seen how much he had changed. However, he had also seen how he had not changed at all. Just earlier that day he had killed mercilessly and apathetically, in his most detached assassin mode. He had killed with a casualness that scared him now that he thought about it, a casualness he had not truly used since leaving Dol Guldur. He had killed those men, and felt nothing while he was doing it.That was where his thoughts had been when the shadowed oak tree had spoken. It must have been reacting to his thoughts, for it was like a verbal answer to his greatest fear right then.Daelas not Legolas.How true that statement was. Legolas had been an elfling, an innocent elfling with eyes that were not violet. The assassin could not remember what color his eyes had once been anymore, though he could recall Ciaran reminding him that violet was not his natural color. Elfling Legolas had had a family outside of Dol Guldur, again something that the assassin did not remember. The elfling had not been an assassin, had had an inner light, and was not a killer. Of those things, the violet-eyed elf was certain. Elfling Legolas had been everything the assassin was not. And until he retrieved his memories, he may never be that again. In fact, even then, he may still not be Legolas.Bitter tears ran down Legolas's face, but he forced himself to refocus on his task. He had to get the antidote, just in case Radagast failed. If the Wizard could not purge the poison, and the assassin was not back, then the Elvenking would die. Another failure to save made by Legolas, assassin and merciless killer.He would always be a weapon, and he could never be elfling Legolas again.LOTRLOTRLOTRFor the second time in less than a few hours, Thranduil woke to aching pain. A foul, metallic taste was in his mouth, and light pain seemed to be running through his veins rather than blood. The Elvenking felt exhausted and ill, shivering for no apparent reason. But even so, he struggled to open his eyes and sit up, only able to whisper in a soft, hoarse voice."Legolas..."Someone shifted at his side, but he knew it was not his son. Panic was quick to come— He could not be gone— and the Elvenking finally succeeded in seeing the world around him. Radagast was leaning over him, eyes bright with relief."Elvenking Thranduil."The Sindar ignored him, sitting up despite the echoes of pain it caused, and brushing away the Wizard's helpful hand. Blue eyes raked the area around them rapidly, fear and despair rising when the one the golden-haired elf sought was nowhere to be found."Aiwendil." the Elvenking said frantically. "Where is Legolas?""Legolas..." Radagast whispered."Yes, Legolas! Esgal is Legolas! My son has been so close all of this time!" Frustration mixed with the joy in the elf's voice. He gave a laugh, half happy, half self-hating. "He was right there and I never put the pieces together. I did not recognize my own child. But that does not matter." Thranduil turned to look at him, a wide smile on his face. "Legolas is all right!" he said giddily, face glowing. "He isn't in Minas Morgul like we feared! He's been free for all of these years and—"The happy grin faded from Thranduil's face as he saw the Wizard's expression. It was a mixture of grimness and guilt, not lightness or joy in his features. There was not any surprise or shock either. The truth came to the elf like a slap to the face."You knew." Thranduil whispered, staring at the Brown Wizard with wide eyes. "You knew he was... You... Delorcion!"Mujstering all of his lacking strength, Thranduil lunged for Radagast, punching him solidly in the face. The blow was enough to send the Wizard staggering back, but he kept his footing. Before Thranduil could follow up on his initial attack, his energy left him and he fell. Radagast caught him, helping him remain seated, and a livid Thranduil could only glare at the Istar."You Delorcion! Three of my children are headed for Minas Morgul on a wild goose chase because of your silence!" the enraged father snarled. "Why didn't you tell me?"Radagast looked right into the angry blue eyes of the Sindar, expression grieved but calm. "I did not tell you, because he is not your son, Thranduil."The Elvenking's teeth bared, almost growling at the Wizard. "Don't you dare lie to me! I know that he is. Don't you dare try to tell me otherwise!"The Istar remained solemn in the face of the golden-haired elf's rage. "Let me clarify, Thranduil. Esgal may be your son in body, but he is not your son in mind. When I told you that I did not know where your son was, I spoke the truth. Prince Legolas Thranduilion remains lost. He is lost along with Legolas's memories. He does not know you, Thranduil."That made Thranduil pause. "Of course he does. We met—""You met less than sixty years ago, as an assassin and the Elvenking. Esgal does not remember that you are his father. He does not know that he is a Prince. He does not remember his family, his old life, or even who he is. Tell me, Thranduil..." Radagast's saddened eyes looked right into the Elvenking's. "...how is he supposed to know who you are, if he does not even know who he is?"Thranduil's anger and joy were draining away, replaced by fear and uncertainty. "I can tell him. My children and I can—""That may have worked if you had known Esgal shortly after he escaped Dol Guldur, but it has been four hundred years since then, and nearly five hundred years since he was first taken." Radagast explained, taking no joy in his words. "You just found out, all the coincidences about Esgal coming together, but before that Esgal being your son was not even a possibility in your mind. And just like you, being the Lost Prince is not even a possibility in Esgal's mind.""Stop calling him Esgal," Thranduil hissed. "His name is Legolas!"Radagast ignored him. His voice grew slightly louder, an emotion close to anger in his tone. "Even if you told Esgal that he was your son, even if you gave him all of the facts and showed proof of your words, he would not believe it. He is Legolas in body, but not in mind. Because he is without his memories, because he has been without them for so long, because he has known you as the Elvenking and his siblings as friends— except one, who apparently hates him— he will never believe he is the Lost Prince. He will think you are wrong, he will be plagued by doubt and guilt, and he will be deeply hurt.""I speak of the hurting of his spirit, for I know that even if he does not believe he is the Prince and thinks you made a mistake, he will try so hard to be your son even though he thinks you made a mistake. Not only that, but others will think you are wrong as well, and they will not be kind about their disbelief. Men that Esgal led into Mirkwood kidnapped you, and when you return, suddenly it is apparent that Esgal is your son? The advisers will not believe it, and will do everything in their power to prove you wrong, because a strange, violet-eyed assassin cannot be the Lost Prince.""They will contain him, they will try to control him, they will hurt him with word and help strengthen the self-doubts. Because he cannot be the Lost Prince. He is an assassin. He is a Wood Elf as far as he is aware. He once told me that his mentor called him "Prince", but that it was a joke on the man's part. He believed it was a joke! He does not remember that he has silver-blue eyes. He does not even remember his mother's appearance or death anymore! He can only remember a pet rabbit named Floppy, and Floppy could be a blasted common name for a pet!"Radagast breathed in sharply, letting the air out in a slow gust before he spoke again. "Because of his lost memories, his past, and the time that has passed, Legolas will never believe he is your son, no matter what evidence you show him. That is why I did not tell you who Esgal was. Because if you and others found out, I knew that you would either tell him or would treat him differently. And do you know who will be the most hurt and confused by your actions: Legolas.""He may wish to know about his past, but he cannot find out like this." Radagast whispered. "He is a young spirit, joyful, free, and so easily harmed. You yourself saw his reaction to Bereneth's actions and words in Rivendell fifty years ago. He may act confident and unaffected,— and many times he truly feels this way— but he is vulnerable. While his memories remain lost, if you tell him this, or tell others, then he will be crushed, Thranduil. And I fear he may never recover."Sad eyes looked into stunned blue. "Do you understand, Elvenking?"Thranduil opened and closed his mouth repeatedly, unable to speak for a moment. "You... you do not want me to tell him." the Elvenking eventually choked. "Him, or my children.""For the sake of Legolas, yes." the Wizard said gravely.Thranduil wanted to argue. He wanted to tell the Wizard that he was wrong. But he knew Esgal, not nearly as well as he wanted to, but still knew him. Radagast's words rang true. The assassin would not believe that he was the Lost Prince. He would try to be a son, brother, and Prince, but he would always think that the Elvenking was wrong. A part of him would hope that Thranduil was right, but he would think, deep inside himself, that the Sindar was mistaken. Legolas would try as long as he could, would struggle as long as he could, but without his memories as proof, he would eventually fail and shatter. And no one would be able to pick up the pieces.The Elvenking put his head in his hands, resisting the urge to sob. "What do I do?" he whispered. "I just— I cannot ignore this.""I do not expect you to." Radagast murmured. "Just be patient. There is still hope. Legolas's memories still exist inside him, and perhaps proper prompting will help to release a few of them. But you must be careful Thranduil. The mind is a powerful and complex thing. It can be easily broken, and not so easily mended. Amnesia is volatile and dangerous, the mind left in a fragile state because of it. You may try to help, but do not rush into things.""I know." the Elvenking whispered heavily. A new fear struck him and he looked up at the Wizard. "Fael, Bereneth, and Megilag are headed to Minas Morgul for no reason..."The Wizard grimaced. "I am afraid that their fates are out of our hands now. Unless you wish to send out another child to try to retrieve them, I am afraid we must let them continue their journey.""Ai Valar..." Thranduil groaned. "This is all such a—""You're awake!" a familiar, joyful voice called.Thranduil froze as Esgal-Legolas-Esgal-Legolas ran up to him, relief evident on his face and his violet eyes glowing."I'm so glad you are all right!" the assassin exclaimed, far from the normal, soft-spoken elf he mostly saw and so close to the happy elfling he once knew that Thranduil felt his heart twinge. "I see Radagast was able to heal you.""Mostly," the Wizard said, to cover up for Thranduil's struggling silence. "Do you have the antidote? It would be best to make sure."Legolas— it was Legolas— held up a vial filled with a light blue liquid. "Here it is."Thranduil noticed that his violet eyes never left him, as if the assassin was afraid to look away. His heart clenched once more. Had him almost dying scared the young elf so greatly? Hands shaking, the Elvenking took the vial from his son and downed it, trying to sort out is thoughts. He wanted so badly to take Legolas into his arms and hug him, never letting go and keeping him safe forever more, but he knew that he could not.He was beginning to understand that not only doubt would hurt the young elf if he knew the truth. Others would overprotect and contain him if they found out who he was. Legolas needed to be free. He could not be kept in the Palace and locked away, cut off from the world.Thranduil could not tell him. He could not contain him. His son needed to be happy and free.Unable to stop himself any longer, the Elvenking grabbed the assassin in a hug, the violet-eyed elf startled by the action but not resisting. Thranduil silently laid his head on top of his youngest son's, carefully avoiding the braid-spikes, simply sitting and holding him."My Lord?" Legolas's voice was soft and concerned, but the way he addressed Thranduil was like a spear through the Sindar's heart. "My Lord Thranduil? Why are you crying?"Oh. He was crying. Thranduil breathed in, a shuddering breath, pulling away from his son and forcing a smile onto his face."I'm just happy you are all right." he said shakily. "I was worried when you were gone..."Legolas looked confused by his words, but his eyes softened and he gave one of the timid, small smiles the Elvenking had grown used to. "Yes. I am here now."Radagast said nothing, and did not interrupt the heart-warming yet one-sided reunion between father and son. Thranduil simply sat there and held Legolas as long as he could, the assassin not breaking contact, most likely thinking that the Elvenking's odd behavior was because of aftereffects of the poison. But the Elvenking did not care. His son was here. He was all right. He was safe. And even though he could not tell Legolas or his other children the truth or risk hurting his youngest, for now it would have to be enough.That did not mean that he was going to sit idly by, however. He knew that Legolas said his memories were caught behind his mental shield. He knew that he was most likely setting himself up for pain and heartache. But he did not care. Thranduil would be careful, he would be patient, he would not give up because he was going to fight, blast it! No matter how long it took and how many times he failed, the Elvenking was going to try to help his son get his memories back.LOTRLOTRLOTRThe two elves and one Wizard continued their trek back towards the Palace not long after that. Legolas was confused by the Elvenking's almost hysterical reaction to him, but was glad that he had been able to provide some comfort to his... parental-figure, mentor, friend? He was not quite sure what Thranduil was to him. Either way, he had felt giddily happy when he saw that the golden-haired elf was awake, and felt no qualms about being hugged by the Sindar. Although he did not know why the Elvenking would want to hug a killer.But now they were headed back, and Thranduil was striding through the woods with a determined, grim air. Legolas did not know what had gained the Sindar's stubborn attention, but knew that once the Elvenking set his mind to something, he would not stop until he succeeded.His thoughts were interrupted by the arrival of new presences, and he called out to the others."Aglar is coming."The Crown Prince dropped from the treetops, followed quickly by five warriors. "Are you all right, Adar?" Aglar asked urgently, walking forward and scanning his father for injuries."I'm fine now." Thranduil said, though his voice was strained. "Esgal killed the men, and rescued me."He did not mention the side trip to Dol Guldur or being poisoned. Perhaps he did not want his son to worry, but Legolas knew that things eventually tended to come out into the open without people's permission.The silver-haired Prince smiled, relief evident, but there was worry in his eyes. The Elvenking noticed as easily as the assassin."What has happened?" Thranduil asked.Aglar grimaced, expression dark. "The men killed six warriors when they kidnapped you. Heled, Uial, Arasson, Istel, Nathor, and Gelinnass."Thranduil's eyes closed, and Legolas stiffened in shock, guilt flaring up once more. Heled. Heled was dead. Heled, who he had just spoken to yesterday, distracting him while he helped Fael, Megilag, and Bereneth escape..."Ai Valar..." the Sindar whispered, placing a hand over his eyes. "I knew that it was likely but I prayed that it was not so..." He shook his head, teeth clenching, before he reigned in his grief. "That is not all that has happened. Tell me, what else has occurred?"The Crown Prince hesitated, looking torn. "I think I should wait to tell you until we reach the Palace." he said.Thranduil gave him a stern look. "I disagree. What has happened?"Aglar swallowed, eyes bright with grief and fear, and Legolas felt his own nerves rising in response. "Esgal left hours ago to come for you, and we left soon after." he said at last. "However... it took a while for us to get here... because we had to make a detour."His voice grew steadily quieter, but the elves around him could still easily hear. The violet-eyed elf's eyes flickered over the five warriors with the Crown Prince. Al of them looked shaken, scared, and lost, as if their world was crashing down."I had two more warriors with me, but they had to return to the Palace." Aglar continued softly. "...With the elves of Lothlorien."Thranduil blinked. "What? Some of the elves have come to Mirkwood?""Not some, Adar." Aglar whispered, and his voice trembled. "All of them. Lothlorien has been destroyed."LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: You honestly did not expect a happy-fluffy-insta-reunion did you? This is an angst story, and there are still things that need to happen before Legolas can know he is the Lost Prince. And when I say that, I mean character-wise. I'm not doing this to drag you along. At least one of the Royal Family knows now. I'll be honest with you: I was going to have the one who discovered who Legolas was and kept it from the others be Aglar. The reason I was going to do this was because I thought Thranduil wouldn't be able to keep such a big thing from his kids. Then I saw the "Desolation of Smaug", and realized that he could. This story is AU, my Thranduil seems to have a different personality in many ways, but seeing him on the screen made me realize that yes, my Thranduil would keep Esgal's identity a secret even from his own family in order to keep his youngest happy and safe. If you still think he should tell Legolas and/or other people who he is, go and reread the section with Radagast, please.Thank you for all of the epic reviews! :DResponses to guest reviews:To "Megan", "Kryst", "arcticfoxlover", "ethuil", "Guest", "sophie", "guest 2000", "Issy", "Guest", "see ", "Angel", "TolkienScribe", "crik", "Naomi", "Guest", "Calenlassiel", "emi", "Bebeyeah", "EventingRules", "Ithildae", "HelloDenmark", "HeartsOfStone", "awesome275", "lotrlover2931", and "Guest" : Thank you!To "Phoebe": Thanks for reviewing! He will get family support... he just won't know he's family.To "shironekochan13": Thank you! Fanart?! So cool! Tell me when it's done. I'm so excited! :DTo "Guest3": Thank you! Thranduil isn't gonna give in and simply wait for things to happen. He is going to try to help Legolas get his memories back, so yeah, Legolas actually will be learning about his past and his roots... though he does not know it yet.To "miss teigne": Merci! Je ne parle pas français, donc je suis en utilisant Google Translate moment de répondre. Avez-vous demandez sur les elfes survivants? Comme vous l'avez vu à la fin du chapitre, ceux de Lothlorien vient d'arriver. Ceux de Rivendell viendront chapitre suivant.To "Velata Sidus": Thank you! The story will be at least fifty chapters most likely.To "Anony-Mouse": Thank you! Legolas thought "Daelas not Legolas" was a reaction to his own thoughts, not something Thranduil said.To "Aisha": Thank you! The showdown will be epic.To "WhichGirlIsWitch": Thanks for reviewing! You saw what happened, and Thranduil is keeping it a secret.Please review!


********** Page 32 **********

Chapter Thirty-One: SanctuaryIt was far past sunset when the group returned to the Palace. Legolas remained with Thranduil as the Elvenking, Royals, Council, and Radagast greeted the Lord and Lady from Lothlorien. The assassin hovered at the back of the meeting room, leaning close to the wall and merely observing everything around him. The refugees had been in the Palace for a while, long enough to clean themselves up and rest slightly, but signs of the struggle in their home lingered.Dressed in the green robes of Mirkwood, Celeborn looked odd but still regal, though he sported a small cut on his cheek. Beside him, Galadriel was also dressed in the colors of the Woodland realm, cleaned and calm but with darkness in her eyes.Both elves appeared to be the image of serenity and peace, but Legolas could tell that they were wearing masks. The Lord and Lady were tense and weary, as if they were ready for another attack but would be too tired to fight anymore if one occurred. Their had glossed over the details of what happened in Lothlorien when asked, just giving the basic idea and revealing none of the shock and horror they must have experienced.To have their allies turn on and kill them, and have to fight and kill them in turn was something out of a nightmare. Actually, even in their worst dreams the elves had not even considered that the Shadowed Elves would turn on them in that way.Legolas wondered if he would grieve for any Shadowed Elves he ended up fighting and killing. He did not know them, and they had fallen to the Darkness, so probably not. Killers like him did not have the right to feel guilt or remorse.Rivendell and Lothlorien had fallen,— Legolas would not worry about Glorfindel. He had to believe that the Balrog Slayer was all right.— conquered from within. No one quite knew what happened in Lindon, only that the Shipyard had been the scene of a massacre. It had been four days since Iãgaw first woke, and already three of the four elven realms were gone. That was not a good start of this conflict for the Free People.Not only that, but the sea-longing had been taken from all elves, leaving them unable to flee to the Undying Lands. Legolas had never experienced the sea-longing, but he could see the lost expression in Galadriel's eyes. She tried to hide it, she really did, but she had been wishing to cross the sea for more than an age. And now that pull, the pull that she knew would lead her to the place she desired, had been cut off from her, leaving a gaping hole.The assassin had to admire the Lord and Lady's strength. So much had happened, so much grief and loss, yet here they were, determinedly speaking with the elves of Mirkwood and giving as much information as they could bear.The Shadowed Elves had betrayed them, orcs had invaded, the surviving Shadowed Elves had retreated, a Nazgûl had appeared and set the forest on fire, and the Lothlorien elves had managed to escape. That was the basics of what had occurred, yet so much more had happened than that. The elves' world had been invaded, torn apart, and shattered, along with their psyches and emotions. Legolas's sense of loss only increased as he heard about the mallorn trees' sacrifices.The trees had done their best to clear a path for the fleeing elves, purposely putting themselves in the way of the Dark Fire in order to shield the Galadrim and ensure that they escaped. Unlike in previous encounters with the Dark Fire, this fire had not gone out when the Nazgûl left. Instead it burned everything in its path. Including the mallorn trees.Lothlorien was destroyed. Imladris was destroyed. Lindon was destroyed. The mallorn trees were dead. The sea-longing had been taken from the elves, along with any safety they may have found in the Undying Lands.If Iãgaw's intention had been to decimate the Firstborn, their culture, and their homes, he had certainly succeeded. Legolas could only wonder if there was a specific reason he had attacked the elves first and so brutally. He knew that the Firstborn were the most Light and the most "magical" other than the Istari, and the Shadowed Elves had been conveniently placed among the realms, but still, why try to obliterate the elves so completely? Did Iãgaw want to prove a point and show his power? Or did he see them as a threat? Did did the Void think that the elves knew something about him that they should not?That thought gave Legolas hope. If Iãgaw was wary of elves for some reason, that meant that the demon was not invincible like they had feared. Something that was unstoppable did not worry about killing of an entire Race and their culture. There had to be a way to defeat the demon, somehow. The violet-eyed elf refused to think otherwise."Your people are welcome to stay in my halls," Thranduil said to the Lord and Lady, pulling the assassin out of his thoughts. "My warriors will help your Galadrim adjust. I know you all need time to recover. However, we must prepare for war. We do not know when Iãgaw will strike again, and we must all be ready to fight.""My Lord," Amon the adviser said, and Legolas had to resist the urge to silence the elf before he could continue. "We must protect our borders, that is true, but why do you speak as if we must head out to battle at any moment?"The Elvenking gave him a thinly veiled look of warning. "Mirkwood is safe. Erebor, Laketown, and the rest of Middle-earth are not. The elves cannot sit idly by and merely protect their own realms any longer. We must fight alongside our allies to protect them as well.""I agree." Galadriel said quietly, stopping Amon before he could speak. "If Middle-earth falls, the Sanctuary will follow, and all will be lost. We must keep back this Darkness, not only for ourselves, but for all Races. We are all bound to this doom, for I fear that even the Undying Lands will not be out of the Void's reach."There was an uneasy silence."What have you seen, My Lady?" Barhad asked cautiously from his spot at Thranduil's left.Solemn blue eyes closed. "I still cannot see what the Darkness intends, but I know that the Void is trying to reach into places he should not be able to touch. However, whatever he is doing is taking all of his attention. I can see elsewhere, and his presence in the shadows are gone.""So we have been given a reprieve from having to face an energy-sucking, shadow-wielding, immortal demon for a little while," Tollui said without humor. "What should we do while the Void cannot watch us from the shadows once we exit this realm?""The other realms need to be told of this threat." Radagast said grimly. "The dwarves and hobbits of Erebor, men of Laketown, Gondor, and Rohan all need to be warned. Unlike the elves, they know nothing of the Darkness that has come.""Boromir of Gondor is being flown back to his home." Galadriel informed them. "He will tell his father about the Void."What about the survivors from Rivendell?" Thranduil questioned her. "Can you see them or speak with Lord Elrond?""They are traveling here upon the backs of the Eagles," the beautiful elleth said. "They will reach the edge of the woods by midday tomorrow. I am afraid... that I can no longer speak mind-to-mind with Elrond over such a long distance."No one demanded to know why that ability had been lost to her."When you approached Mirkwood, did the shadowed trees let you in?" the Elvenking asked, changing the subject.It was Celeborn who answered. "They hesitated at first, but let us pass once they saw that there were no... 'bad men' among us."Everyone present winced, most internally. The fact that the hunters had managed to take Thranduil right from under their noses was still fresh in their minds. For the Councilors the thought brought about a feeling of anger and uselessness. For Radagast, Galadriel and Celeborn, it sent chills up their spines at how easily the Sanctuary had almost fallen. The present children of the King carefully hid their shudders, still unnerved by their father's capture even though he was now safe. And the mention of "bad men" only increased the guilt, self-doubt, and horror at his own actions that Legolas was feeling.Amon gave a soft huff, breaking the uneasy silence. "I see that the trees have learned that the other Races cannot be trusted to come in here." he said coldly.All present looked at him with various expressions. Neutrality, agreement, shock, and anger could be found throughout the room. Thranduil was among the "neutral-look" group, though Legolas had a feeling that the Elvenking was as angry as him."We will have to speak to the trees about this." the golden-haired elf said, drawing all attention to him. "The Sanctuary is meant to protect and shelter all Races. If the shadowed trees refuse to let men in, it could cause many deaths. We have to teach the trees how to better recognize friends and foes. It will not help anyone if they only let in elves, but block out the other Races of the Free People.""Are you saying we should let men into our realm?" Amon demanded. "They have no right to be here!"Legolas resisted the urge to throw a knife at the adviser. Just to startle him and make him be quiet, of course. Was the elf really arguing with his King in front of the Lord and Lady of the Light? Amon needed to smarten up and lose his arrogance. It was unclear why the adviser was being so unbearable and argumentative lately, but it was being... counterproductive. For his own sake, preferably before Thranduil completely lost patience with him.The Elvenking remained calm and cool, raising an eyebrow at the irate elf. "Are you saying that when the survivors from Rivendell come, we should bar entrance to Estel Elrondion and the hobbits?"Amon hesitated before speaking again. "Of course the son of Elrond has a right to—""Why do you speak of people's 'rights'/" the golden-haired elf questioned. "This is not about 'rights' and realms. This is about saving and sheltering as many people as we can. The Void will not be dormant for long. Once he is done with whatever task he has given himself, he will return and continue to destroy as many cities as he can. If the people are lucky, some will manage to escape, and the only safe place for them in the world is here.""It no longer matters what Race you are. It is irrelevant what 'right' people have to be in the Woodland Realm. We must all work together, open our borders, and help each other if we wish to defeat this enemy. As Lady Galadriel said, divided we will fall. But together we may just survive and rise."Thranduil turned away from the adviser, having nothing else to say to him. "Esgal, tomorrow will you speak with the shadowed trees and try to help them understand who to let in and who to keep out?" he asked the assassin. "The trees still listen to you more than anyone else."Legolas nodded immediately. "I will do my best."He did not know how a killer like him was going to convince sadistic trees that men could be friends. The Elvenking would be better off sending him off on an assassination mission. After all, killing people was what he was best at...Thranduil frowned at the assassin, an odd look in his eyes. He then glanced out of the window, looking at the darkness outside. "It is late, so this meeting is adjourned. If you have anything else to say, we will discuss it at a later time." This was not-so-subtly directed at Amon, who looked ready to argue.The adviser wisely kept silent. The Councilors, Royals, Wizard, Lord, Lady, and assassin filed out, Legolas lingering at the back. Thranduil's call made him pause, and he turned to see the Elvenking still standing in the center of the meeting room. The golden-haired elf beckoned."Esgal, can I speak with you a moment?"The violet-eyed elf cautiously approached, wondering what the Sinda could want. Thranduil smiled reassuringly at him, though his eyes were filled with concern."Our conversation earlier was interrupted, and I wanted to make sure you were all right." he said."I am fine." Legolas responded immediately.The blue-eyed elf shook his head. "No you are not. Your eyes are dark." Legolas flinched, and the Elvenking quickly amended his statement. "Not dark violet, just... burdened. Sorrowful... Guilty."The assassin did not react in any way, keeping a blank expression on his face.Thranduil sighed. "And now I know that you are troubled. And I have a feeling that I know what haunts you."He stepped forward, placing a gentle hand on the young elf's shoulder. The assassin ducked his head."Esgal, look at me." the Sinda ordered.Unwillingly, the violet-eyed elf did.The Elvenking's face was gravely serious. When he spoke his voice was passionate and firm. "You are not a murderer. You are not a weapon. Those men forfeited their lives the moment they agreed to follow Saruman's plan.""That does not change the fact that I killed them without mercy, before they could even fight back." Legolas whispered, voice cracking.Pain flickered through Thranduil's bright blue eyes but he remained steady and set in his beliefs. "Yes, you did. You are an assassin. You are a weapon, meant to kill enemies from the shadow. That is what you do. However, that is not all that you are."The golden-haired elf's voice hitched but he continued. You are a young elf still trying to find his place in the world. You like to tease your Gwador and participate in prank wars with the sons of Elrond and Fael. You love nature, and are fascinated with all life, no matter how small of a life a creature has. You even grieve for the lost lives that you have taken in battle. You find joy and wonder in little things no one else would even notice. You have trouble trusting but when someone gains your trust, you love and care for them so deeply that you can be so deeply hurt."Thranduil took a breath. "You are not a cold-blooded killer. You are not a weapon. You are not emotionless. Always remember that, for you are so much more than an apathetic assassin. You are Esgal. You are Daelas. You are Brian the 'Ranger'. You are Hoshvuras... You are Legolas."Legolas's eyes snapped up to the Elvenking's, wide with shock."I heard the shadowed tree in Dol Guldur say 'Daelas not Legolas'," Thranduil said softly. "Will you... Will you tell me why you do not use it?"The assassin shifted on his feet, looking down. "I... At first it was to protect myself. Then I did not because it is the only thing I had left from my past. It was mine, and mine alone to know, so... so no one could take it from me. And now... I don't know who 'Legolas' was, so how can I be him?" His voice shook. "The only things I know are things that can be assumed through logic. The only fact I have is that he— I— had a pet rabbit. We're so different, I'm so changed, that how can I ever know or become even close to who I was before my memories were sealed?"The Elvenking looked sadly at him before his expression changed into grim determination once more. "You do not need to worry about becoming who you were again. You do not need to try to change who you are. 'Legolas' was a part of you, and still is, and when the time comes and your memories return, I am sure that everything will come together. Besides, I think that you have more of 'Legolas' inside you than you think."He smiled then, genuine and comforting, and Legolas found himself smiling back. Just a little."I... will not tell anyone about your birth name." Thranduil promised. "I can tell that is a precious secret to you... though I cannot say that I am sorry that I stumbled upon it." There it was again. That odd, unidentifiable expression before it cleared. "However, know that you can trust me with anything... Esgal. If there is anything you wish to talk about, anything you wish to tell me, I am here. I— I may not be able to find my son, but at least I can help you."Legolas found the last statement to be comforting rather than guilty or strange. For some reason, he did not feel as if the Elvenking was using him as a distraction since he could not go out and find the Lost Prince. Thranduil truly did want to be there and assist the assassin. And for once... Legolas felt like he could let him.He could not convey his feelings into words, merely whispering a soft "Thank you."And although Thranduil's eyes shone with a sadness his face lit up with relief and joy. He understood."You're welcome."LOTRLOTRLOTRThe sun was high in the sky when the Eagles approached Mirkwood. Days of hard riding had borne them and their passengers to the shadowy Woodland realm, but now it was time to part ways. The Eagles had to return to their own home, and it would be difficult for them to maneuver through the woods.Glorfindel slid from his Eagle's back, turning around to carefully untie Erestor before she and the other Eagles flew off. After days of never waking, the scholar's condition was past merely concerning the Balrog Slayer. He was terrified. Elrond could find no reason why Erestor was staying unconscious.He was not comatose, his breathing and heartbeat strong. It was more like the scholar was merely sleeping deeply, unaware of the world around him and unable to be woken. His skin was pale and his eyes were closed, but there was nothing physically wrong with him, and nothing to explain why he was in such a state.The only other elf who was struggling was Elrohir. Most of the elves seemed to be pushing back their shock and horror but the younger twin was suffering greatly. He varied between states of hysteria and blank silence, staring at nothing for hours on end. He had not spoken since leaving Rivendell, and even Elladan was unable to get through to his brother. Elrohir had blocked their bond so thoroughly that the older twin could not even guess what his twin was feeling.Glorfindel did not know much about Elrohir's amplified sensing abilities, but he had a feeling that they were the reason for the dark-haired elf's problems. The younger twin had managed to hold out through the battle, but once it was over he could no longer distract himself, and crumbled beneath the mass of whatever he was sensing.The Balrag Slayer could do nothing for Elrohir, nor could he do anything to help Erestor. The feeling of helplessness weighed down on his already burdened soul and mind. He had been unconscious for most of the attack in Rivendell, and had been unable to save his home from Dark Flames. The only time he had felt this hopeless was when the Balrog had pulled him down to his death. The Vanya sighed heavily as he carried Erestor in his arms, murmuring softly to him as had become his habit throughout the journey to Mirkwood."You need to wake up soon, mellon-nin. This arrangement is not right at all. Usually it is you fretting over me, the twins, or Estel while we lay oblivious to the world. I can see now why you always lecture us once we awaken. When you return to us, I will be relieved, but do not expect to get out of a talk about how worried I was about you. I think I'll enjoy being on the other end for once."Erestor did not respond to his weak teasing and the Vanya shook his head, walking towards the other refugees from Imladris as they gathered in front of the entrance to Mirkwood. Or, at least, where the entrance had once been.Instead of a path, there was nothing but a wall of thickly-woven wood. The shadowed trees had grown and changed drastically, cutting off any entrance into the Woodland Realm. So this must be the power of the Sanctuary that Gwaihir vaguely spoke of. It was beneficial for keeping physical enemies out, but the downside was that it also seemed to be keeping the elves blocked as well.Glorfindel walked up to Aragorn, Elrond, and Elrohir. The younger twin was in his catatonic state, eyes completely blank and unseeing. The Vanya spoke softly to Estel, Elladan, and Elrond. "According to Gwaihir the shadowed trees are now on our side, but keep your distance. I will go speak with the trees. They know me, and I will hopefully make them let us pass."The Elf Lord and man nodded— Elladan's attention remained on his brother— and Aragorn took Erestor from the Balrog Slayer. Glorfindel approached the shadowed trees, black limbs perking up slightly as the trees recognized the golden-haired elf.Daelas-Gwador-Glorfindel! They greeted happily.One tree moved its limbs slightly, draping them over the Vanya in the trees' version of a hug, but the others did not move aside.It has been a while, Glorfindel commented. I am pleased to see you. You are different. I heard you are free?Free, free! The shadowed trees chorused. Happy now. No burning-too-bright lights. No icky-stuck Spider webs. No nasty orcs. Liberators, Chanters free us!I am happy for you, the Vanya said patiently. Now your job is to keep this realm safe?Yes, yes, they told him. We keep woods safe. We keep Chanters safe. We keep Daelas safe. We keep you safe too.Thank you, Glorfindel said. But if you are to keep my friends and I safe, why is the way into safety blocked?Instantly the shadowed trees' moods changed, turning from happy to angry and dark. While a less knowledgeable elf would have been alarmed, the Balrog Slayer remained calm.You have man with you! The shadowed trees spat. Nasty man! Bad man!Glorfindel frowned, glancing back at Aragorn. Estel is not a bad man. Estel is Daelas-friend. Daelas trusts him. The Balrog Slayer knew the trees well enough that he knew that they cared for Daelas and what Daelas thought more than anyone else. Even now, with the "Chanter and Liberators", they specifically mentioned Daelas as someone they would protect.The trees thought about this, still angry. Daelas trusted-but-did-not-trust bad men. Megilag-Prince let bad men in and Daelas led bad men to Elvenking but bad men were bad! Bad men took Elvenking! Bad men hurt Elvenking! Bad bad men!Glorfindel felt a chill. Thranduil had been captured?Is the Elvenking all right? He asked urgently.Yes, the trees told him, but rage rippled through their voices. Daelas killed bad men and rescued Elvenking. But bad men still tricked Daelas and got to Elvenking! Daelas trusted-but-did-not-trust bad men and they were nasty-bad! Elves are not-bad, little not-men-hobbits are not-bad, but we won't let Estel-man into Mirkwood! They hissed the word 'man' with hatred, as if men were as evil as orcs in their eyes.The Balrog Slayer thought carefully, trying to come up with a way to convince them. The fact that Aragorn was Elrond's adoptive son and had been raised among elves would hold no weight in the shadowed trees' minds. Saying that "Daelas-Gwador" had known the Ranger since he was a child would not change their minds either...An idea formed in Glorfindel's mind. Estel is a close Daelas-friend, he told the trees. Daelas cares greatly about Estel, and wishes to protect him. Daelas was the one who brought Estel to Rivendell for safety when he was small.The trees mulled over his words. Daelas brought Estel to Hidden-Sanctuary? They questioned. Daelas trusted Estel in other realm?Yes, Glorfindel emphasized.The trees murmured unintelligibly among themselves. Then their attention returned to the Vanya. We will let elves and little not-men-hobbits and Estel-man in, they decided.The golden-haired elf smiled. Thank you, mellyn-nin.The wall of wood moved apart, revealing the path into Mirkwood. Glorfindel ushered the others inside. The elves did not hesitate to head for the tunnel that was created, but the hobbits hovered nervously, staying where they were. Yes, they were almost used to elves and their strange magic, but moving trees?Finally Bilbo stalked out of the mass, turning back and beckoning to his kin. "Come on now. The way is open. Don't just stand there like startled does!"The hobbits timidly followed the elves into the woods. Glorfindel checked to see if everyone was coming when he spotted Elladan and Elrohir standing in the same spot they had been, alongside Elrond. The Balrog Slayer hurried over to them, and the older twin looked up at him with a frustrated and fearful look on his face."Elrohir won't move. He's just standing here... staring."Indeed the younger twin was still looking into the distance, but now he was looking away from the woods. Instead he silently stared across the open area between the forest and some trees on the other side. Exchanging a glance with Elladan, Glorfindel gently grabbed the blank-eyed elf's other arm and guided him towards the path. Elrond stayed beside them, face twisted with concern for his younger son.Elrohir just kept staring, turning his head to look behind them. He blinked, something entering his eyes. The other three elves paused."Elrohir?" Elladan asked hopefully.Another blink. The younger twin's mouth moved wordlessly."Elladan." his brother said more firmly. "Can you hear me?"Elrohir turned to him, breathing starting to quicken. Glorfindel's heart clenched as the elf began to shift into his hysterical state. To his shock, the younger twin did not collapse and start hyperventilating. Instead, he whispered a single word in a hoarse, croaky voice."Shadowed."He still stared at the other copse of trees. Glorfindel followed his gaze, sharp eyes seeing among the silent trunks outside of the Sanctuary. He saw movement among the woods. He let go of Elrohir, racing towards the edge of the Sanctuary.Shut the way! The Balrog Slayer shouted to the shadowed trees. Enemies come!Shapes appeared out of the other woods, racing quickly towards the open path. They were Shadowed Elves, their black eyes visible even from the distance. The shadowed trees hesitated, confused by what they were "seeing" and what they were sensing. They were elves but they were not elves. No. Actually, they were not elves at all. They contained pieces of him. They contained pieces of the Darkness that tried to enslave the trees!As one, the trees shrieked in rage. Glorfindel gave a cry of pain as the terrible sound reached his eardrums. He staggered, unintentionally exiting the Sanctuary. The Shadowed Elves ignored any pain they felt from the sound, all focusing on the stunned Balrog Slayer in their path. The closest one unsheathed her sword, raising it as she approached to strike down the Vanya.The trees screamed. YOU NO HURT DAELAS-GWADOR!Limbs lashed out, stabbing into the servants of the enemy as easily as sharpened spears. More limbs plunged down, slamming in front of Glorfindel and acting as a wall between him and the enemies. A single limb snaked around his waist, pulling the Balrog Slayer rapidly backwards as the path was sealed in front of him. He could no longer see the Shadowed Elves, but he could hear their screams and the sound of wood entering flesh, of bones being snapped, all accompanied by the snarling roar of the trees.The shadowed tree that had grabbed him set him gently down beside Elrond, who looked at him with open shock. Many others had similar expressions, though most showed stunned horror. Glorfindel breathed heavily, shakily touching the limb that hovered near him like a worried parent.I am fine, he told the tree. Thank you for the assistance.Enemies will not hurt Daelas-Gwador, the tree said coldly. Bad-aura Shadowed elves are Void's servants. Bad-elf-servants will not be let in here. Its attention shifted, its mood calming. Daelas comes.Sure enough, the assassin dropped down next to Glorfindel, looking in the direction of the edge of the forest. "I am sorry that I did not arrive earlier." he murmured. "Though I may not have been needed. I see that the trees let you in."He gave the Balrog Slayer a smile, hesitated, then rushed forward and gave Glorfindel a hug. The golden-haired elf returned the gesture of affection, grinning sadly but happily at the same time. The assassin must have been terrified for him if he was hugging him in front of so many people."I'm so happy that you're all right." Esgal mumbled. "When I heard that Rivendell had fallen..."The Balrog Slayer did not laugh and say that it would take more than what had happened to kill him. Instead he merely held his tithen-gwador. "It is all over and I am fine." he said calmly, gently. "Right now we have to get to the Palace."Esgal did not let go for a moment longer, then pulled back, the distant fear in his eyes fading. "Right. Is anyone severely injured?""Erestor is unconscious and Elrohir is..." Glorfindel trailed off, looking at the younger twin where he stood beside his brothers.Aragorn had passed off Erestor to a healer, and was currently standing in front of Elrohir with a lost expression on his face. Catching Glorfindel's gaze, he spoke hopelessly. "He is not responding again."Esgal frowned, eyes narrowing. "His aura has grown considerably, and is rather unstable. Has something happened?""His sixth sense increased dramatically after the Void awoke." Elladan explained, expression brightening. "Esgal, can you do something?"Glorfindel was confused by the older twin's request until he remembered that the assassin had learned how to use and control his sixth sense as part of his training. The violet-eyed elf walked over to Elrohir, a serious expression on his face. He studied the other sensor for a moment, taking in both his appearance and aura."You say that his sensing abilities increased?" The others nodded in response. "Has that happened to anyone else?" A negative head-shake answered him.His frown deepened. "How has he been acting?""He is either catatonic or hysterical," Aragorn told him miserably. "Whenever he is aware he is mumbling about how its 'too much' and how it 'hurts'."Esgal's expression darkened further. "Rainor and Uilos know the way to the Palace. Anyone who is not a family-member or Glorfindel, start heading there!" he ordered loudly, glaring at the gathered elves and hobbits around him. "Now."The blunt command in the assassin's voice made the others obey without question. However, the Balrog Slayer and Elrohir's family members felt a chill at Esgal's tone. There was no joking in his voice, and it suggested that they had all better obey him or they would face severe consequences.The assassin's hard look transferred to them. "Give me space."They did not hesitate, backing away so only the assassin was near Elrohir. Shifting from stern to gentle, Esgal carefully placed his hands on the younger twin's face, looking straight into his unseeing silver eyes."Elrohir." he called softly. "Elrohir, can you hear me?"LOTRLOTRLOTRPain.Too much—Bright-agony-strong-pain-auras.They overwhelmed him. They crushed him. They tore at his mind and pushed and pressed, like someone was striking him in the head with a mountain. The auras around him were too bright. Agony. They flared and roiled and surged like a violent storm, each one striking him simultaneously, like spears more than lightning.He could not distinguish one aura from another, all of them melding into a chaotic blur he could barely comprehend. It was only through luck that he had recognized the Dark auras that had come. He had retreated from the blackness that brought no relief and tried to warn them, only for the pain to be too much.It was all too much—Crushing pain.He could not remember his name. He could not remember what he was. He could not remember where he was or what had happened. He could not see, hear, speak, or feel. All he knew was pain. Energy swirled and pulsed around him. Constant, badgering, unrelenting. Was he moving? Was he standing? Was he breathing? Was he with someone? Was he alone? He did not know he could not know there was too much pain pain pain.Make it stop. Make it stop. Please, please make it stop!Auras shifting. Energies swirling. Presences retreating. Less pain. Still too much, but there was less.Something was... in front of him. Yes. It was close to him, in the direction he was facing. It was not a presence. It was almost an absence of a presence, but not Dark like the empty-cold-evil presence of the Void.More shifting. More changing. Another aura appeared. He mentally screamed and cringed, prepared for more pain, but no pain came. Curious, he refocused on the presence in front of him. It was calm. It was controlled. It was gentle and not too bright. It was the desperate breath of air he needed as he drowned.He watched it warily, waiting for it to flare and cause pain like the others, but it remained steady and constant, like the soft glow of the moon. Timidly he focused on it, fascination entering his mind. If the aura had color, he would describe as a mix of light gold, earthy brown, shimmering silver, and beautiful emerald green, with light streaks of sky-blue mixed in.It was bright-but-not-painful yet it could be so much brighter. It was shielding itself with a light mist. The mist, he decided, would be violet, though he did not know why that color popped into his mind."...done, Elrohir." a distant voice entered his ears. "Keep focusing on me."The voice was the presence, the calming aura. The aura that was taking away the pain, gently reaching out and encircling... Elrohir. His name was Elrohir. Of course he would continue to focus on the presence, rather than the still-bright-painful auras he could still sense."Elrohir. Elrohir, listen to me." the voice was as calm as the aura but demanded his attention. "I cannot keep shielding you. You need to shield yourself and control your own sense. You know that block that you put up to keep Elladan out?"That's right. He had a brother. A twin, who he had blocked the bond with so he would not be exposed to the pain."Imagine that wall, that block that you raised." the voice commanded. "See it, feel it in your mind."He could feel it. He could see it. He imagined a wall made of immovable rock, blocking the path between him and his twin's mind."Take that wall and duplicate it, but instead of being a wall of stone, imagine it is a gentle shield of light. Let that light stand as a buffer between you and the auras. Control your sense."He struggled for a moment, attention flickering back to the painful auras, but the calm-aura caught his attention again, soothing him once more like cool water. Elrohir imagined light, not-painful-light, flowing through his mind, building upward and outward as it encircled him. Immediately the other auras were no longer painful, their presences and brightness dimmed to a bearable amount."Very good, Elrohir." the voice said softly. "That is good enough for now."To the elf's great disappointment, the calming aura vanished from his sixth sense, too subtle for him to be aware of anymore. His eyes fluttered and he blinked, sight returning to him. Silver eyes met violet, and Esgal smiled."Welcome back.""What happened?" the younger twin whispered, voice hoarse.He looked around in confusion, slowly recognizing the trees as those found in Mirkwood. Before he could observe more, two objects slammed into him. Elrohir yelped, startled, and looked at his two brothers in surprise. He could sense their auras, no longer blazing suns, and slowly began to discern the difference between the two."You are all right." Elladan mumbled, voice hitching as if he were resisting the urge to cry. "You are all right...""I'm fine now." Elrohir said mentally through instinct, and this twin's expression brightened.Elrond was speaking to Esgal, relief evident in his tone. "Thank you. May I ask how you pulled him back?"The younger twin and his brothers turned to the assassin, wanting to know as well. The violet-eyed elf looked right at Elrohir."When your sensing abilities increased, you sensitivity to all of the auras around you grew to an unbearable amount." he said softly. "When I was learning how to sense others with my aura, I accidentally went too far and almost lost myself. My mentor used a technique he called "the Eye of the Storm" to bring me back.""In simple terms, what one has to do is dull and control their presence as much as they can, so that their aura is a calm area among the chaos of other auras. This single point of calm draws in the sensor's attention, distracting them from the chaotic auras. During this period, the person with the calm aura can guide and help the other, by helping them control their own sensing abilities."The assassin was gravely serious as he looked at Elrohir. "I am glad that you were able to filter and block the auras around you so quickly, but you will still have to learn how to control your senses. Blocking and filtering will only work for so long. I am afraid that lessons in meditation is the best way to learn instinctive control." He did not smile.Neither did Elrohir, the echoes of pain poking at the back of his mind. He and things like meditation did not mix, but he could feel the pressure of his new power in his mind, ready to explode if he was not careful."I will learn." he said quietly.Esgal relaxed noticeably, assured by his words. "Good. There is a reason that most elves do not have the power to sense auras from miles away. You have been given a gift and a curse, Elrohir Elrondion."Elrohir remembered the feeling of being able to sense others' deaths and silently agreed.And then the commanding you-will-listen-to-me Esgal was gone, the danger having passed. He turned to look at Elrond and Glorfindel. "We can head to the Palace now."Elrond looked as if he wished to know more about Elrohir's former condition and future but restrained himself for now. "Very well. Lead the way, Esgal."LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: Okay... so I was listening to the Sting cover of "Deep in the Meadow" while writing the part between Legolas and Thranduil. Bad idea. :'( Poor Thranduil. He so wants to tell the complete truth but instead he has to leave info out.I hope that the last part made sense.Responses to Guest reviews:To Merenwen, mngirl, TiTaN, Kryst, Naomi, Guest, Fallenfire, Ninna, HeartsofStone, EventingRules, arcticfoxlover, Guest, WhichGirlisWitch, Aisha, Anony-Mouse, Issy, DragonGirl, lotrlover2931, and Guest: Thank you!To "Worldflower" Thank you! I know about the Kinslaying and all that, I was just saying that Light Elves would not do that anymore. Thanks for telling me about the "r" thing! I had no idea. Plurals and singulars can be so confusing! I think I got confused because "Istar" is singular and "Istari" is plural. I assumed that "i" usually represented "plural" ya know? So it would be Sinda, Noldo, Vanya, Vala, Elda, etc? Good to know.To "Guest": Thank you! Actually... I am no "bro". :PTo "archangelofloki": Thanks for reviewing! Yes, in a few chapters.To "Guest": Thank you! Yes he did. Delorcion is a created version of "bastard", as in "you freaking jerk". Delorcion comes from Delos-Orch-ion, meaning "detested-orc-son".To "emi": Thank you! Thranduil is not planning on telling anyone to protect his youngest. They'll find out though. He can't do anything about the three questing kids. You'll have to wait and see what happens with them.To "guest 23": Thank you! Its going to take a while.Please review!


********** Page 33 **********

Chapter Thirty-Two: Strain and BreakPebblebrook was a little town in western Gondor. With only two hundred people settled within the wood-and-stone built homes, its residents lived a simple life. They farmed out in the fields, growing crops and grain, trading their goods with that of the neighboring village, who sold pelts and meat.The town was close enough to Minas Tirith to say that they were— just head east, you will find the city there— but far enough away to not care about the larger scale of things or be of any use in war. The people of Pebblebrook were just fine with that. They were happy that no enemies had reason to attack their home, which held no strategic value.However, like with all small villages, Pebblebrook loved its stories. Every night the village elder would sit before a bonfire, telling tales of battles and glory, of joy and despair, of dwarves and elves. Wide-eyed children would gather around him, their wide-eyed parents staying just close enough to hear, as the old man told them of great wars far past, of the magic of elves, and other things that could not all be true.Like all sentient people, the mortals of Pebblebrook longed for a bit of chaos amidst their order, for diversity and unexpected happenings. Although they would not go out and seek adventure, stories of great deeds filled their hearts with excitement. They were so small and insignificant, that sometimes, they just wanted to be important and grand. They wanted something new to happen.So when nine elves came riding into the little town, the people of Pebblebrook were filled with joy and awe. They spotted the immortals riding in upon their steeds, creatures only heard of in distant stories coming right to their doorstep.Elves! They thought, amazed and wondrous as the fair beings approached. Elves are here, of all places! The people gathered in the street, watching in fascination as the sunlight glinted off of shimmering golden, silver, and dark hair. The elves were beautiful, immortal, and untouchable, yet here they were, before the stunned villagers.The elves entered the small space that served as the main square, their horses halting as if obeying an unheard command. They sat, regal and distant, as the village Elder approached, a wondrous expression on his face."My Lords," he murmured, stumbling slightly over his words as he bowed. "Welcome to Pebblebrook. May I ask what brings you to our humble village?"The lead elf— one with dark hair and glittering armor— smiled.Metal flashed.The Elder continued to stare up at the elf, awed face transforming into one of confusion. Then he fell forward, blood spraying from the wound on his chest, his body hitting the dirt with a thud that seemed to echo through the silence.The townspeople froze, staring at their storyteller in disbelief. Their eyes snapped back up to the elf, who still sat atop his horse, his crimson-stained sword gripped in his hand.The immortal looked back with eyes black as pitch.And then the air was filled with screams.LOTRLOTRLOTRLegolas sat upon the forest floor, legs crossed and hands resting limply on his knees. Eyes closed, head tilted back, he let the sunlight filtering through the trees warm his skin. He breathed, softly and evenly, quietly observing the energies of the forest around him.The presences of the shadowed trees were not Dark anymore, merely muted when compared to the auras of their Light kin. Although they were prone to pulse and surge whenever the trees grew agitated or emotional, currently they were calm and peaceful, almost soothing. And that was exactly what the assassin and his twitchy student needed.Elrohir sat across from the violet-eyed elf, acting like an elfling who was being forced to do his studies when he wanted to run outside. Actually, he was more like an elfling faced with a terrible test forced upon him by his instructor. The younger twin's aura flared and dimmed chaotically along with his roiling emotions, but Legolas did not need his sixth sense to see that Elrohir was terrified.They had not even officially begun, and the other elf was already moving and fidgeting, twitching and shifting, both from nerves and an inability to remain still. When Elrohir shifted and sighed for the tenth time since they had begun meditation, the pale blonde-haired elf finally acknowledged the disruption."I thought that elves your age were supposed to be patient." he said benignly."I am patient." Elrohir protested. "I am just not used to sitting still. And what do you mean elves my age? Are you calling me old?""We have barely been sitting for five minutes and you are already as twitchy as a nervous squirrel." Legolas told him, opening his eyes. "We have not even begun your lesson in control over your powers, and we cannot begin until you manage to calm yourself and meditate properly. And I was not saying that you were old. You are over a thousand years old, the age where elves are supposed to be fully matured mentally, yet you are huffing and sighing like a bored elfling.""Was not." Elrohir muttered mulishly.The assassin did not smile. "You were. I know you have more control and patience than this, so exactly why are you purposely stunting your own learning efforts?""I was not." the younger twin said. "I am just distracted today. You are right, I was acting like an elfling. Perhaps we should delay this lesson until a later time—"He made as if to rise but Legolas's hand on his shoulder stopped him from standing. The pale blonde-haired elf's violet eyes looked steadily at Elrohir, filled with a mix of annoyance and compassion."Delaying and stalling will not help you, Elrohir. You need to learn how to control your sixth sense. The shield you put up to dull the auras around you is well done and strong, but you need to reign in the sense itself. You have shielded your mind, not dimmed your sixth sense. If you do not learn how to control your new power it will one day shatter that shield and your mind with shatter with it. That is why few dare to use the ability to sense auras to the extent that we do. If one does not have the mental control over that ability, it will overwhelm them."The assassin patted the dark-haired elf's arm once. "I know that you are afraid to open yourself and touch that power again, but you do not need to worry. Once you sink into a meditative state and can organize your mind, I will help you grasp your power as you slowly lower that shield you built, bit by bit. Letting the shield down completely would only bring you back to the state you were in before, so we need to do this carefully."Elrohir bit his lip, silver eyes dark with nervousness and fear. "I know, I know. But I am... afraid, Esgal. You do not know what it was like, to be so overwhelmed by that power. There was nothing but darkness and pain, and I am afraid that if I make a mistake that I will be sucked back into that mindless agony." His voice cracked."I will be here." Legolas reassured him. "If you are going to fall, I will catch you, and pull you back. I promise that I will not let you be lost."Silver eyes looked deep into violet, and Elrohir nodded hesitantly. Then he looked away, still shifty and on edge. The pale blonde-haired elf translated the body language easily: Elrohir trusted his friend, he just did not trust himself. Elrohir was too tense, too terrified of even touching his power to get anywhere close to doing so. How could the assassin make the silver-eyed elf take that first step forward? He needed a push to get him past his fear, but what could Legolas do to motivate him?The assassin sighed and crouched directly in front of the other elf, forcing the younger twin to keep eye contact. He kept his voice gentle. "Trust me and yourself, Elrohir. We need to begin now if we intend to make any progress today. If we stay out too long, your brother will come after us out of worry, and you will no longer be able to learn control. The auras of elves are too bright for you to focus around right now. You know how to meditate. You know how to clear your mind, and are perfectly capable of doing so. Calm yourself. Clear your head of troubling thoughts. Think of something that brings you peace. Breathe."Elrohir tried. Legolas watched as the other elf sat there, muscles tense and face taut with worry. He did not relax and most definitely did not breathe, more like a terrified rabbit faced with a predator than a twitchy elfling now. The assassin shook his head. They were still getting nowhere. He could only think of one thing that may reassure the dark-haired elf enough for him to try."Elrohir." the violet-eyed elf said, drawing the other's attention to him once more. "How about this: I will release my aura enough for you to sense it as you are now. That way, the Eye of the Storm will already be in place, so you will not lose yourself to the pain and darkness."The son of Elrond looked visibly startled by the assassin's offer. "You would release your inner light?"Legolas shook his head. "You mistake my aura for my inner light. They can be connected, but a presence is not a soul. A soul is a person's spirit. An aura is that person's energies, which are a mix of physical, emotional, and spiritual. If a person's aura was connected to their soul, then spiritual healing would be impossible, because the healer would be giving up a piece of their soul every time they healed. Auras and energies can be replenished. A soul can rarely mend if it is torn or broken.""But you would still be showing something that you normally hide." Elrohir said, still uncertain. "I know that you hide your presence completely. When I was... ill, I could see it clearly, but now that I am shielding myself, you are invisible. If I was just seeing with my sixth sense, I would see the energies around you rather than you.""Yes, that is true." Legolas admitted. "It is another technique that Ciaran taught me. Most assassins learn to shield their presence, but few are able to blend themselves in with the auras around them. Most leave a gaping hole where their presence is, which only matters if a sensor is nearby. But we are getting off topic. I do not mind you using my aura as a focus point if it will help you feel more comfortable."The twin rose his eyebrows at the violet-eyed elf, still stunned. The assassin did not understand why he was so surprised. Elrohir was his friend, he cared greatly for him and his well-being. And if the dark-haired elf did not learn to control his new-found powers as soon as possible, it would only end badly for him. Legolas needed to help him overcome his trepidation so they could move forward.After a long beat of silence, Elrohir's expression shifted and his normal, easy smile formed on his face. "Le hannon." he murmured, a deep gratefulness in his voice.The assassin merely nodded and closed his eyes once more, gently letting his aura become "visible" to the world. He knew Elrohir was able to sense him when the other elf breathed a sigh of relief, immediately relaxing."All right." he said, much calmer and more confident then he had been. "I am ready to begin now."Legolas did not respond verbally, merely studying the son of Elrond. Elrohir's chaotic aura had stilled, stabilizing with his mood and becoming slightly dimmer as the elf calmed and went deep inside himself. The younger twin's breathing evened out and slowed, becoming a steady, soft rasp.The assassin opened his eyes and waited patiently for a few moments before speaking softly. "Well done, Elrohir. Allow yourself to sink into your consciousness, feeling your mind and the shield you constructed...""I feel it." the son of Elrond murmured after a pause. "I see it... It's like a light...""Good." Legolas encouraged, memories from his own lessons with Ciaran rising to the forefront of his mind. "Can you feel the auras through the shield?"Elrohir twitched slightly. "Yes. They're dulled and dim." Another twitch. "Don't make me let them in...""I will not." the assassin promised. "Now, do you feel your connection to the auras? Do you see a bond between you and them, like a river or path?""I..." the elf shifted his weight slightly, a frown crossing his features. "I... think that I do. There's... something that goes through the shield. It's like..." A violent flinch. "...It's a river. It's churning and pulsing and flowing too fast..."His breathing began to quicken but Legolas let his presence expand, wrapping around the other like a protective warm cloak. "It is all right." he soothed. "Do not look where the goes outside of the shield. Only focus on what is inside. That river is your power. It is chaotic and out of control. You say that it is pulsing and churning? Can you try to calm the water?"Elrohir's breathing was still a little too fast. "It's not working!" he mumbled. "It's too much!"His aura flared with his rising emotions, but Legolas remained calm. "Do not try to calm all of it then. Focus on a small part of the river. Put your hand in the water, and focus only on the liquid flowing through your fingers. Instead of a raging river, imagine that water to be a calm stream. Imagine it breaking away from the river to form its own path..."Again the elf's aura shifted, edging towards control and calm once more. His expression was slightly distraught and unnerved but some of the tense lines in his face faded away. Legolas sat and studied his student and his aura carefully while absently listening to the forest around them and checking to make sure no too-bright presences were headed their way.Finally, Elrohir spoke again. "I did it... but the water I changed split into four streams. Did I do something wrong?"Legolas had to refrain from grinning like a fool. "Not at all! That is wonderful, Elrohir!"The river was Elrohir's power, his sixth sense reaching out to the auras around him in a raging surge of water. Turning the river into a single stream had been the first step in slowly learning control, but dividing that stream into smaller, easier controlled ones had been the next. Every time Elrohir took a piece of the raging river and turned it into calmly flowing waters, a piece of his power was reigned in under his control. However, simply calming the water was not enough, because as a whole it was still too overwhelming.The next step had been to divide the stream into smaller, more docile and containable trickles of water. Small trickles of water were easier to block than one large body of it. Legolas knew that Elrohir had more control and awareness of his mind because of his heritage and the fact that he had a telepathic bond with his twin, but he never expected him to be able to divide his power into more easily-containable sections on his own, without even knowing that he was doing it!"Keep going, Elrohir." the assassin told the other elf. "Take another piece of the river, and do what you did before."The dark-haired elf gave a vague mumble of consent before doing as he asked.By the time Legolas called for a halt, the son of Elrond had made great progress. About a quarter of the chaotic river had been calmed and divided into tiny flows of water, one-fourth of the power that sought to blast out and overwhelm the elf now under control.Legolas could tell that Elrohir was exhausted, both physically and mentally. His silver eyes were half closed and he was slightly slumped where he sat."That took more out of me than I thought it would." he said.The assassin rose to his feet, reigning in his aura as he offered his hand to the elf. "Indeed. Many do not realize that working with the mind and subconsciousness can be as tiring as running for days without stopping. You did well, Elrohir. Much better than you and I expected. And you did not fall once."They slowly began to make their way back towards the Elvenking's Palace. Elrohir looked up at the shadowed trees they were walking under, quiet and quite solemn."The only reason I did not fall into that darkness again was because of you. I felt your aura... stabilizing me. I cannot thank you enough for letting me sense it. I know you like to keep things hidden." Bright silver eyes turned to look at the pale blonde-haired elf and the twin spoke almost wistfully. "I understand why you hide your presence, but a part of me wishes you would not. You are just so... controlled. So calm, even if you truly are not. It is soothing. How did you learn to control your aura to that extent?"He held up a hand before the other could answer. "That was rhetorical. I know that Ciaran taught you. Still, you do not need to keep your aura so closed off all of the time. Like you said, there are few who can sense auras, and here in Mirkwood you and I are the only ones that can to the necessary extent. So... do not hide yourself, all right?"Not quite sure what Elrohir was saying, the assassin only nodded hesitantly. Some of his confusion must have showed in his expression because the twin groaned."I sound like I am rambling, aren't I? What I am trying to say is that you can trust us, and be yourself here. I... I see so much 'color' in your presence. Colors that represent your emotions, history, personality, and who you are. You are so bright, Esgal. Do not forget that, and never let someone take that brightness from you."More confused than he was before, Legolas only nodded again. Either Elrohir was slightly delirious from the training, or he had a little more of his grandmother in him than he let on. If the latter was true, then it seemed that the twin's sixth sense may not have been his only gift to be amplified..."Gwador, Estel, and Elladan are coming." The words left his mouth before he fully registered that he had sensed their presences. Telling others of approaching auras was becoming instinctive, it seemed.Elladan appeared first, looking agitated and concerned. Most of his worry trickled away when he saw his brother, but the irritation remained.Elrohir quirked an eyebrow at the older twin, looking just like a less-worn version of their father. "Why do you look as if you found centipedes in your bed?" he asked, then paused. "If you do find any, I did not do it!"Identical silver eyes narrowed suspiciously. "Noted." he growled, but some of his annoyance drained away."So why are you storming through the forest with that look on your face?" Elrohir eventually asked.Elladan huffed, shrugging. "I just came to find you, and Estel and Glorfindel decided to come with me. Things are a little tense back at the Palace, and we just wanted to get away for a while."Elrohir and Legolas were not surprised. It had only been a couple days since the hobbits and Rivendell elves had arrived in Mirkwood, and all parties involved were still struggling to adjust to the changes. Differences in culture and mindsets had caused many clashes between groups, all struggling to coexist when they had been separate for so long. The uniting of the people within Mirkwood was going to be easier said than done.Also, for the three it was most likely go out here and wander or hover at Erestor's bedside, the scholar still showing no signs of waking. Even the combined force of Elrond, Mirkwood's healers, Celeborn, and Galadriel could discover nothing about what was wrong with the elf. Elrond and his family, plus Glorfindel had been taking turns sitting at Erestor's bedside, like an unofficial guard for their friend. Even though it was slightly uncaring for the scholar, Legolas was glad that four of the five people had decided to get away from the Palace and the burdens within it for a while."You are lucky that you were out here." Elladan grumbled. "Estel, Glorfindel, and I were forced into a meeting along with Adar, Daeradar, Daernaneth, the Elvenking, and those bunch of idiots that call themselves a Council."Legolas suppressed a groan. "What have they done now?""Nothing, thanks to Thranduil." Aragorn said, though he was obviously annoyed. "The meeting was about the hierarchy in Mirkwood now that elves from Imladris and Lothlorien are here. It was decided that the respective leaders would lead their people as they did while they were in the palace, but in cases having to do with the entire realm they would have to refer to Thranduil or one of the Princes. The Council made a fuss. They wanted the warriors from the other realms to answer to them but Thranduil was having none of it.""What I do not understand is why the Council is acting like this." Elladan said irritably. "They should be working with the Elvenking rather than dragging their heels and acting like snappish hounds.""They are afraid." Glorfindel said quietly, Legolas nodding in agreement. "They fear the future and the sudden changes thrust upon them. Many elves do not like change, particularly those who are in positions like theirs, and to have such rapid changes in the realm and the world around them is making them unsettled.""Unsettled or not, I think that Amon character needs to be locked in a closet until all of this is over. Or the dungeons. Preferably the dungeons." Elladan revealed, ignoring the Balrog Slayer's warning look."He was one of Oropher's advisers." Glorfindel halfheartedly defended the elf. "He likes change in the kingdom... less than many of the others. I remember him throwing a fit when Thranduil chose to marry Luineth, a Silvan elf. It was back when Oropher was King, but he allowed it. I still remember Amon's vocal opinions about the matter however.""Does he... dislike Thranduil?" Legolas asked, eyes narrowed."He respects him and will follow him, but he does not approve of many of the Elvenking's beliefs and decisions." the Vanya revealed. "I only know of this because of letters between Elrond and Thranduil about the matter. I am afraid that Amon may continue to be a thorn in our sides in the future."That was an unpleasant thought.LOTRLOTRLOTRThey lingered out in the forest for as long as they could, unwilling to give up the freedom of the forest. The Elvenking's Palace was so tense and changed that it was hard to go back, and Legolas had a feeling his four comrades were all beginning to understand why he preferred solitude.Eventually they returned and went their separate ways, Legolas wandering outside of the Elvenking's Halls and wondering why he lingered. He had promised Elrohir that they would continue his lessons tomorrow, but he had no reason to stay within the Palace until then. He liked the calm and nonjudgmental forest more than the chaotic caverns, yet he found himself drawn to the Elvenking's home more and more. While he would have walked away without a thought years ago, now he had less of a desire to immediately leave.It must be because all of my friends are here, he mused as he sat in the limbs of a tree on the grounds. They are here and safe, and... I want to be here with them. I... I do not want to be alone anymore. Not as much as I did before. The realization was sudden and startling. Have I changed so much? He wondered, the faces of his closest friends— family?— flashing through his mind. Do I... crave companionship now rather than solitude? Do I love and trust these people that greatly?Raised voices interrupted his thoughts, and he moved through the branches, peering down at the people below. Six elves were standing below his tree, three from Mirkwood, three from Lothlorien, their different realms made obvious by the armor and colors they wore. Legolas noted a couple hobbits hovering near the wall, most likely watching the exchange like him."How dare you speak of this realm with such scorn!" one of the Mirkwood warriors— Glamour— was shouting, the normally calm elf's expression twisted with rage.The Galadrim he spoke to did not seem bothered by his fellow elf's anger, looking down at Glamour like he was a mangy stray dog that had followed him home. "I only speak the truth, Wood-elf. You and your King must have failed spectacularly in keeping the Shadow back if you needed Vala-magic to force the Darkness out.""We did not fail." Glamour snarled. "We fought and kept the Shadow back with our own power for hundreds of years. Which is more than can be said of you! The Elvenking did not need to use a Ring of Power as a crutch to hold back the enemy, nor did his realm fall the moment that power failed!"The Galadrim's face darkened, his cold composure shattering as he glared at the other elf. "Do not insult my Lady!""Then do not insult my King, Noldo-Kinslayer!" Glamour spat.The Galadrim lunged for the Mirkwood warrior, tackling him to the ground. The other four elves quickly joined the fight, shouting and brawling without a care for dignity or camaraderie. The hidden assassin and visible hobbits could only stare in shock at the display of violence, not brought about by Darkness or evil, but the natural rage, fear, tension, and grief within the elves. Legolas could only stare at the fist-fight in bewilderment for a moment before his expression hardened. He leapt down from the tree, landing amidst the elves."Enough!"Six hard strikes brought down the brawlers, all of them gasping or stilled by the pressure points he had used, mercilessly forced to release their opponent. Glamour was sporting a bloody nose, the lead Galadrim had a cut lip, another had what was definitely going to be a black eye and the other three just looked ruffled. The assassin glowered at them all, and a couple flinched."You are all fools." the violet-eyed elf snapped at them, not mincing his words. "You are allies and neighbors, comrades against the Darkness, yet you are throwing insults and treating each other like enemies! You—" he pointed at the three Galadrim, who quailed under his glare. "— I will inform Haldir of this, and let him deal with you accordingly. However, I will tell you that insulting the realm, the elf, and the people that have offered their home to you makes you worse than scum. Get rid of your superiority complexes, otherwise I will remove them for you."The Lothlorien elves gulped."You—" The assassin's attention moved to the Mirkwood warriors, who twitched uncomfortably, never having seen the normally quiet elf so angry. "Calling him Kinslayer was cold and inappropriate. You know perfectly well about the Shadowed Elves, and saying that the Ring was all that defended their home when they tried so hard to save it was callous. It does not matter what they say and how much they insult the Elvenking. They are your guests, they have just lost their home, and you should be welcoming and bonding with them, not brawling like drunken men!"The Mirkwood elves avoided his eyes, ashamed."You are all over a thousand years old." Legolas said coldly. "Be proud of yourselves that you received a lecture on compassion and proper behavior from someone who is barely half that age, young and naive compared to you wise warriors."The assassin spun on his heel, leaving them laying there without really caring. Now he remembered why he hated society, and dealing with people. There were so many ignorant, stupid, blind fools. He understood that they were upset by the changes around them and the losses they had faced, but could they make more of an effort to unite and get along? During times of hardship, people were supposed to look out for each other and help one another, not push others away and antagonize them.He did not realize that he had been looking for Glorfindel until he entered the Halls of Healing, where the Balrog Slayer was once more sitting at Erestor's bedside. The Vanya was slumped in the chair, chin resting in his hand, his elbow balancing on his knee. He looked tired and rather defeated sitting there, and Legolas felt a twinge just looking at him.The assassin took a moment to study the Erestor's aura for what seemed like the hundredth time, puzzling over the strength and steadiness of it. If the elf was in a coma or deeply unconscious, his aura should have been dim and faded, not as bright and vibrant as it was when he was awake."Esgal." Glorfindel greeted the assassin without looking away from his close friend.The violet-eyed elf walked silently into the room, settling into a chair next to his Gwador's. "Has there been any change?" he asked."None. He is still unconscious." the Vanya said, frustration evident in his tone. "It has been a week, and he has showed no signs of waking.""His aura is strong." Legolas cautiously revealed to the Balrog Slayer. "If I did not know better, I would say he was aware and conscious."Glorfindel finally looked at him, brow furrowed with concern. "That does not make sense! Nothing about his condition does. He did not receive a blow to the head, he is not comatose, his breathing and body are fine, he does not appear to be suffering from dehydration or a lack of food, but he just lays there, never waking..." The Balrog Slayer sounded miserable by the end.Legolas sighed heavily, feeling only a portion of his Gwador's burdern. "So many things do not make sense lately." He scowled as he thought about the fight earlier. "The future is going to be difficult to face.""Indeed." Glorfindel agreed, turning to the assassin. "So how was Elrohir's lesson? He did not speak about it on the way back here. Is he doing all right?""He is." the assassin said, lips inching upward. "Once I helped him get over his fear, he did quite well.""Good." the golden-haired elf sighed. "That is one less thing to worry about then. There is one thing I do not understand, though. You go out into the forest so he is not near the auras of elves, but wouldn't the trees' auras hurt him as well?""Not the shadowed trees'." Legolas explained, glad to distract the Balrog Slayer from his worry for a moment. "Their auras a dim compared to their Light kin's, and since they are no longer infected with true Darkness, being exposed to their presences will not hurt Elrohir like the auras of Shadowed Elves did. Also... the trees purposely pulled in and contained their presences while he was training."Glorfindel gave a short laugh, a smile crossing his tired face. "Let me guess, they did this without any prompting from you?" The assassin nodded, and the Balrog Slayer chuckled again, more lighthearted this time. "Those trees will do anything for their Daelas. They—""Daesīdh... Mornestel... Dūrcuil..."The two elves froze, turning to stare at Erestor. The scholar shifted slightly, and Glorfindel practically leapt forward, kneeling beside the bed."Erestor." he called, voice filled with hope. "Can you hear me, mellon-nin?"The dark-haired elf shifted once more, then went still. Glorfindel called his name a few more times, despair quick to return as he realized that the scholar was back to being unresponsive. Legolas watched as the Vanya slowly stood and walked outside of the Halls of Healing, the assassin hesitantly following the other elf. The violet-eyed elf flinched as Glorfindel punched the wall, giving a cry of pure anger as his fist met the stone, the rock cracking a little from the blow."Valar curse it!" he shouted.Legolas unconsciously stepped back, away from the Balrog Slayer's rage. Glorfindel noticed, eyes flicking wide with shock before he mutely shook his head, sliding down the wall to the floor and placing his head in his hands. The younger elf observed him warily before sitting as well, directly beside the golden-haired elf.He carefully placed a hand on the other's shoulder, not saying anything. Soothing words were meaningless when one did not know if everything was going to be all right. He did not speak, only sat there and gave physical comfort, even as Glorfindel began to cry.LOTRLOTRLOTRTranslations:Gwador: brotherLe hannon: Thank youDaesīdh: Shadow PeaceMornestel:Black HopeDūrcuil: Dark LifeA/N: Ugh. This so feels like a filler chapter to me! :( So I was going to have certain hobbits show up in this chapter, but instead I ended up having Elrohir freak out for a few pages, revealed a bad past between an annoying adviser and the Elvenking, had a confrontation between angry elves and an irritated assassin, and ended it all with Glorfindel sobbing in the hall. How did this happen?!One thing though: While I was writing the scene with the Galadrim and Mirkwood warriors, I imagined them pulling each other's hair like schoolgirls. (snickers)Thanks to everyone who reviewed! (Hugs) Sorry for not responding to guest reviews. Know that I thank and love you all. :DPlease review!


********** Page 34 **********

A/N: WARNING: Dark chapter. There is a dark enough section that I took it out a few times before deciding you all could handle it. LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Thirty-Three: Terrible RevelationsThranduil knew he was asking for trouble. In a hall lit only by flickering candles, he hovered outside of a firmly shut door, watching light and shadows battle and sway on the walls and seasoned wood. It was late at night, the day's duties and placating the Council bringing the Elvenking past the point of exhaustion, yet he could not sleep.Instead he had begun to wander once he had been done, his feet bringing him to this door. This door that he had found himself standing outside for the past few nights, unwilling to enter but unable to walk away. The door, which led to Legolas's room.Not the room of a young elfling Prince had once occupied, but the guest room that had become an assassin's quarters. Thranduil should not dither outside and stare at the door of said quarters for hours, but his nervous desire to check on his son as he slept demanded nothing less, and wanted much more. The Elvenking felt like a new parent, rushing frantically to his newborn infant's room every hour to make sure that his child still drew breath. For the Sinda specifically, he was checking to make sure Legolas was still there, that he was real and truly safe.The desire to shield his son from harm plagued Thranduil but he managed to force it back. Mostly. He had to let Esgal keep his freedom. He could not suffocate the assassin with his fear and concern. But that did not stop the Elvenking from standing outside Legolas's room, straining his ears in an attempt to hear the violet-eyed elf's even breaths. However, even in sleep his son was silent, so Thranduil could hear nothing to reassure him.He knew Legolas had to be asleep though, because if he were not he would open the door and ask why the golden-haired elf was there. Either that or he had left. But surely he had not gone. Elsgal always bade his friends goodbye before departing. Always. So he had to still be here.Thranduil closed his eyes, banishing his terrified thoughts with difficulty. It was so hard not to lock Legolas away in the Palace and watch his every move, to make sure he was safe and out of danger and could never come to harm, because if his son did get hurt then the Elvenking knew he would not be able to handle losing him again—The Sinda clenched his fists, taking a few calming breaths. He just had to open the door and put his mind at ease, that was all. There was no need for all this worry and fuss. Carefully, the Elvenking turned the knob, gently opening the wooden door. Thankfully, the hinges did not creak.He peered inside, his sharp eyes easily able to pierce the darkness, and a weight lifted from his shoulders when he spotted Legolas sleeping on the bed. Relief quickly became panic when he looked at his son more closely, because Legolas was sleeping with closed eyes. Was he hurt? Was he sick? Was he that exhausted? What was wrong?!Thranduil stepped forward, alarm racing through him, and violet eyes snapped open. The shift from sleep to wakefulness took less time than a blink. Another blink and the assassin was out of bed, daggers drawn, tense and ready as he scanned the room for threats. The Elvenking immediately froze, but relaxed once more as sharp violet eyes merely swept over him.The Sinda was distantly pleased that Legolas did not see him as a threat, but also ashamed of himself for even thinking that the assassin would react to him like he was one. The golden-haired elf did not approach until his son decided there were no present dangers— a decision that came mere seconds after his waking— and calmed, sheathing his knives."Is everything all right, Thranduil?" Legolas asked in a low voice. "Your flaring aura woke me.""I apologize for interrupting your rest." The Elvenking said, striding forward and closing the distance between him and his son. "I was just startled." He scanned the assassin with his eyes, seeing to visible injury, then looked back at his face. "Are you all right, Esgal?" he asked, concern evident in his tone.The assassin looked puzzled, head tipping slightly to the side as he frowned. "I'm fine. Why would I not be?""You were sleeping with closed eyes." Thranduil told him, and if his voice shook slightly Legolas did not mention it.Understanding crossed the young elf's face, followed swiftly by an uncertain expression. Then that too vanished, replaced by the neutral look the assassin used when he wished for none to know his emotions. Thranduil inwardly winced, wondering what he had said to make his son put on his "mask"."I rarely sleep with my eyes open." Legolas revealed flatly, as if he expected to be ridiculed by his admission. Before the Elvenking could think of worst-case scenarios for that habit, the assassin continued. "It is something Ciaran taught me in case I ever needed to sleep among others and they believed me to be a man."The blue-eyed elf studied his son, forcibly quelling the sudden irrational anger he felt at the young elf's deceased mentor. Elves sleeping with open eyes was what allowed them to dream, to have visions of the future, and be almost as aware of their surroundings as they were when they were awake. Sleeping with closed eyes blocked dreams and awareness, the light nap-like rests that elves took replaced by heavier, darker slumber.Thranduil knew that Legolas was still one of the lightest and most aware sleepers he could think of, but he could not understand why his son would choose blackness and emptiness over dreams."Why do you choose to sleep with closed eyes?" he asked, keeping all judgments to himself. "If you do that, you do not dream."Any movement the violet-eyed elf was making ceased, utter stillness coming over his frame. "...You just answered your own question, My Lord." he admitted stiffly, and his eyes flicked up to meet Thranduil's. "I do not dream."The Elvenking stared at him uncomprehendingly for a moment. Then realization came to him like a sword through his heart. He struggled to keep his reaction inside, unable to fully contain his flinch. He was an idiot, a fool of the worst kind. Ai Valar why had he not realized.Legolas had been raised in one of the Darkest places in Middle-earth. He had been surrounded by orcs, savage, cruel beasts. Beasts that did many terrible, unthinkable things that would make most creatures cringe or faint. They murdered each other, tortured poor souls, consumed the corpses of the dead, including that of their own kin..."You have nightmares." Thranduil whispered, still cursing his own thoughtlessness. "If you allow yourself to dream, you have nightmares from your past."Legolas turned away from him, voice low and dark as he spoke. "Yes. I witnessed... many terrible things where I grew up. Many, many horrible things."A shudder passed through his thin frame, and Thranduil could not hold back, taking his son into his arms and holding him. As he wrapped his emerald-robed arms around the assassin, the Elvenking desperately wished he could take the memories of those terrible things away, even though he could not and knew that memories— even bad ones— were more precious than almost anything to the violet-eyed elf."Do you want to tell me anything?" he asked softly. Please, tell me something. I need to know what scares you so. I need to know how badly I failed to protect you.The assassin's voice was bitter. "I would rather not give nightmares to the Elvenking. You need to sleep, and cannot keep dreams away like I can."Thranduil barely stopped himself from flinching, forcing a smile as he pulled back and looked into his son's face. "I am sure that I can handle it."He sat down on the bed, and Legolas sat beside him, looking down at his clenched hands. After a pause he began to speak, voice blank and distant."There are many things I can tell you. Many, many memories of things that I have seen that I sometimes wish would be erased from my mind. But there is one... instance that rises above the others. Something I will never forget.""When I was fifty-two, the equivalent of a human thirteen year-old, the orcs captured a boy. He was most likely no older than twelve. Apparently he had been traveling with his family when the orcs attacked them. His family was killed, and he was taken. The orcs..." His fists clenched so tightly his knuckles were white. "...tortured him for days. I could hear him screaming throughout the day and night, his cries only stopping when he fell unconscious. Ciaran kept me as far away as possible, but I could still hear him.""I wanted to help him," Legolas's voice broke. "But Ciaran told me not to get involved, that there was nothing we could do. He said that if we tried to save him, we would all be tortured and killed. For three days I listened to him, all while hearing the boy's screams. But on the third night, I could not stand by any longer, so I went to try to help the boy. I thought that maybe I could make the orcs think he was dead, and get him out of there. When I got down to him cell, the orcs were still there..."Again his voice cracked, and tears trickled down his cheeks. "...He was on the floor, half his limbs ripped off, and the orcs were— were—"Thranduil could not breathe, feeling the simultaneous urge to vomit and cry. His hands shook as he put an arm around his son, feeling him tremble."I killed them all." Legolas whispered, a feral snarl entering his voice before it faded, leaving only grief. "And I knelt at the boy's side, covering him with my cloak. He was still alive, and when he turned to look at me, he smiled, showing bloody gums... And then he died, still looking at me like I was a Maia come to save him."The assassin fell into silence, and Thranduil found he could not speak, his heart breaking as he looked at his son. Of all things to witness, of all dark memories to have, for him to see that of all things..."His eyes were blue, and his hair was a fiery red under all of the blood." Legolas continued quietly. "Whenever I allow myself to dream, I see the boy, broken on the floor, staring at me and waiting for me to save him. Every time I dream of him, I cannot move, only stand there as him life slips away and his dead gaze becomes accusing. 'Why didn't you save me?' his corpse whispers again and again. 'Why didn't you try to help me?' And I cannot answer, only watch, as he looks at me with those pained, angry eyes and begins to scream at and curse me. I am trapped in that cell with him until I wake.""After a while, I learned to sleep with my eyes closed to keep him away. And for the following years I was in my home—" he spat the word with anguished contempt. "— I taught myself to be cold. I taught myself to be emotionless and unfeeling. The mentality where my eyes become black was all that I dared to be for a while, though back then my eyes did not change color. When I was an assassin in mind along with body, nothing could affect me. Nothing could scare me or make me feel grief. I was untouchable, and I vowed I would never care like that again."Legolas took a breath, exhaling deeply. "I remained in that state for close to a decade, until Ciaran decided that he would not let me lose my emotions and compassion. He fought me, harder and fiercer than he had ever done, shouting at me in a language he knew the orcs would not be able to understand or recognize. He called me a failure and a coward, a weak, worthless, ungrateful piece of orc-spawn, shouting insults and cursing me in an attempt to get me to react. At first, I did not, maintaining the persona I had perfected.""Ciaran knocked me back, holding his knife to my throat, and I did not care. I just stared at him and waited, a part of me eagerly waiting to the stroke to fall. I no longer cared for my own life, only for the mission, and at the time my mission had been to defeat Ciaran, a mission which I had failed. So I waited, and so did he, unmoving. And then he wept."The young elf looked at Thranduil, violet eyes dark. "I had never seen him cry before. He was always stoic, supportive, and strong, letting nothing affect him. But that day tears ran freely down his face, and he begged me to come back... and to not end up like him. I do not know if it was his tears or his words that reached me, but suddenly I was sobbing beside him, and he was holding me in his arms.""Because I avoided and locked away the horrors I had seen, I did not recover from them, so everything was still fresh in my mind. I healed over time and mostly forgave myself for not being able to save the boy, but the nightmares of remained. They still come back to plague me whenever I dare to dream."Legolas hunched closer to Thranduil, any reservations gone as he pressed against his side like a scared elfling. In turn, Thranduil kept his arm securely around the young elf, as if doing so would keep away the evils of the world."That was my childhood, Elvenking Thranduil. Terror and Darkness and Evil all around. That is what I was exposed to in my youth, and although Ciaran managed to keep Light and joy in my life, the Darkness was still a heavy presence. Being surrounded by evil is all I remember. But it is not as bad as it could be. I am happy now, and unafraid of the things I may face. I do not freeze because of what I have seen, and am not captured by flashbacks when something occurs that may remind me of something terrible.""I can forget about it all most of the time. The only times I even acknowledge the horrors I have seen is when I consider sleeping with open eyes, and recall why I cannot let myself dream. I am scarred, and I may be a little broken, but I can keep the scars hidden, and I can show that I am still somehow whole."The Elvenking did not know what to think. His breathing was hitching and harsh as he struggled not to cry, his eyes burning from unshod tears. My poor Greenleaf, he thought mournfully. Ai Valar how could this have happened? You are so fragile at the same time, yet you are strong enough to be considered otherwise, your scars hidden so deeply one may mistakenly think they have been healed. But you are not healed, Little Leaf. You have seen the darkest parts of the world, and I do not know how to help you...Thranduil could see now, more than ever, why he could not tell Legolas who he was. Too much had happened for such news to be taken smoothly, and the Elvenking was more afraid that he might shatter his son than he had ever been.He wanted to run, to distance himself from Legolas in case he said the wrong thing, to get away from the words his son had uttered and swim in denial that the young elf had ever faced such a traumatic situation. But he could not leave him here alone, sitting in the dark with cruel memories flickering through his mind...The golden-haired elf rose from the bed, beckoning for Legolas to follow him. "Come with me."Cautiously confused, the assassin hesitantly did. They went through the silent halls, no guards crossing their paths, the violet-eyed's hesitance and puzzlement growing as he recognized the way to the Royal wing. Thranduil passed his chambers and the chambers of his children, stopping at the last door on the right. Taking a key from his robes he opened it, again motioning for Legolas to follow.The assassin stepped into the room, looking around at the small space. There was not much to see, only a chair, an unlit fire, and what appeared to be a basket full of sewing items, but Thranduil still did not stop, going to the other side of the room and opening the door there. Legolas followed him, cool night air caressing their faces, and the Sinda heard his son gasp softly.In front of them was a small garden, the flowers and leaves turned silver in the moonlight. Flora ranging from daisies to buttercups to soft white roses was spread out ahead of them, nurtured with care and beautiful even with closed petals to keep out the night. A simple stone bench was set under the only tree in the garden, and atop it was a small portrait Thranduil knew all too well.Trying not to look at the picture, the Elvenking spoke quietly to the assassin. "This was my wife's personal garden. My children and I have been tending to it over the years in her... absence.""It's beautiful." Legolas whispered, wide eyes taking in every detail. "I have never been here before. I tend to stay out of the Royal wing." He took a step forward before halting and turning to Thranduil. "Can I...?""Of course."The assassin grinned, a sunny, happy smile, and walked near the flowers, gently touching them with his hands. The plants, lively and aware after years in elves' presences, strained to keep in contact with his hands. Though they had no voices, a sense of disappointment radiated from them when Legolas stepped out of their reach.Legolas turned in a circle, an expression of contentment crossing his features as he stood in this place of peace, where Shadow had never touched the nature around him. His head tilted back and his eyes closed as the air almost hummed. Thranduil was fine just watching his son wander about, more like the carefree elfling than the Elvenking had ever seen.The assassin looked at the bench, eyes drawn to the portrait that lay on top of it like a shrine. He approached it, leaning forward but not touching, and frowned. Thranduil moved so that he was beside Legolas and followed his gaze, pain stabbing through his chest as he looked at the detailed and beautiful portrait of Luineth. Movement at his side made him turn, in time to see Legolas pulling his hand back, as if he had resisted the urge to touch the picture."Esgal?" he questioned, but the assassin did not look away from the departed Queen. "Esgal, what is it?""I..." Legolas blinked rapidly, staring at the picture like he could not tear his eyes away. "I think... She looks... Her eyes..."The assassin's body jerked, his hands going up to his head as he released a pained cry. His knees buckled but Thranduil caught him before he hit the ground, heart pounding in his chest. What was wrong now?"Legolas? What is it?" he asked urgently, forgetting to use the assassin's commonly-known name.Pale eyelids fluttered, the elf not falling completely from consciousness, and his eyes opened once more, echoes of pain swimming in their violet depths. "I a-am fine." Legolas stuttered, voice shaky and rough. He stumbled to his feet, a hand still to his head. "It just f-felt like someone was stabbing m-my skull with white-hot k-knives..." He lowered his hand, glancing at the portrait of the elleth he did not know was his mother. "S-Something was trying to c-connect but it hurt and... a-and now its gone a-again.""I am deeply sorry." Thranduil said helplessly, mentally kicking himself.He had not meant to attempt to trigger one of Legolas's memories, and had not even considered the picture might cause a reaction. The results of this unintentional test only deepened the Elvenking's internal despair. He had spent the last few days desperately thinking of ways he could try to bring back Legolas's memories, but the mere sight of the portrait of an elleth he no longer remembered had caused him pain when the memory tried to return. It had caused him enough pain for him to show it and cry out.Legolas tried to smile at him, the attempt wobbly and weak, which only served to make the golden-haired elf curse himself more. "I am f-fine." he repeated, hand reaching for his head again before he visibly forced himself to let it drop.No, no, no! Thranduil silently wailed. You are still in pain! Please, do not hide it! I am so sorry...Some of his horror must have shown in his expression because the assassin insisted again that he was fine. "T-Thank you for showing me this place." he continued, the stutter slowly leaving his voice.His hand did not stray towards his forehead again, and his smile became more genuine as he tried to reassure the Elvenking that he was all right. Thranduil did not know whether to believe him."I am fine." his son said again. "I like it here. Can... I stay a little longer?"The Elvenking silently nodded and picked up the portrait, sitting on the bench beside him. The sense of peace returned, Legolas able to forget his troubles again, but the Sinda was now tense and haunted. Every time he thought he was a step closer to helping his son, every time he found out something more about the elf his Little Leaf had become, the more Thranduil felt helpless.But he sat in silence, keeping his discontent inside, and allowed himself to smile as Legolas once again looked around him with wondering eyes. He may not be able to heal his son like he wished, but he could be there for him and assist him in any other way he could.He only hoped that the Valar were not so cruel as to throw any more bitter obstacles in his way.LOTRLOTRLOTRThe next morning, Thranduil decided that the Valar did indeed hate him. He sat, frozen on his chair in the Council room, mind blank and unable to react to the world around him. Amon stood in front of the Elvenking, expression indifferent but eyes filled with triumph, and Thranduil wanted nothing more than to punch him and lock him in the dungeons for all eternity.If people could know that Esgal was Legolas, the Sinda could, but no one could know. No one could know, especially not these Delorcion Councilors. The father part of him was silently screaming, bellowing for the Councilors' blood for daring to even suggest such a thing, but the Elvenking part of him was cold and detached, distantly pointing of the logic of the Councilors' plan.The Council, Galadriel, Celeborn, Elrond, and the advisers had all unanimously decided that Saruman needed to be taken care of before he could become more of a threat. The White Wizard had already attempted to capture and kill the Elvenking, and all in Mirkwood knew that that was the least of what the fallen Istar could do. He was a threat, a great one at that, but one that could be taken care of at the current time. One, that if Amon had his way, would be eliminated.Still staring at the adviser with the face of the Elvenking, internally screaming and shaking with terror, Thranduil wondered whether Amon truly believed Esgal was capable of assassinating a Wizard, or whether the Delorcion hoped the thorn in his side would die in the attempt.The Sinda wanted to leap to his feet and scream "No!", to tell them all that he refused to let his son go on such a mission, but unless he revealed Esgal to be the Lost Prince, it was not his decision. Galadriel, Elrond, and Celeborn had agreed to let Esgal go on one condition: That the assassin accepted the mission.Thranduil knew that Legolas would. His son would not refuse, especially since Aragorn would soon be heading to Edoras in order to warn Theoden about Iãgaw. Legolas had been planning to go with his friend anyway, and Isengard was not far from Rohan's capitol...And so Thranduil was silent when the decision was made. He was silent when a warrior went to fetch the assassin. He was silent when Legolas listened to the Council's request.He was silent when his son accepted.He hated himself for not speaking, for not doing the only thing that would keep Legolas from going on that mission, but he could not do it. He could not reveal to the Delorcioni Council and their smug, Delorcion leader that Esgal was the Lost Prince.And so it was decided.Esgal would assassinate Saruman.LOTRLOTRLOTRRagged, panting breaths sounded through the air. Bare, hairy feet stumbled over grass and stone. The four hobbits were running, panic in their steps and terror in their eyes as they fled. Behind them, the howls of wargs sounded, promising pain and grisly death.Peregrin Took, more commonly known as Pippin, ran alongside Merry, with Frodo and Sam just behind them as the wargs and their orc riders got ever closer. Although he ran because his life depended on it, Pippin was still unable t fully comprehend how quickly things had gone from "peaceful" to "dangerous and potentially deadly".Just a few days before, Pippin had been one of the many hobbits in Middle-earth to never travel or set foot too far from his home in Dale. He, Sam, and Merry had gone to Lake-town and Erebor on occasion, sure, but they were used to the bustling city that had been reborn after the death of the dragon Smaug. The only one who had ever traveled was Frodo, the oldest out of the four and the only one from the hobbit settlement in Rivendell.Merry and Pippin's respective parents had both been too wary of the elves to accept their invitation to stay in Imladris, though sometimes the older hobbits still spoke reverently of the glowing elf that had saved Bilbo's life. And after the death of Hamfast Gamgee during the attack by the Black Riders, Sam's mother had decided she would rather stay in Dale as well.As such, it was intriguing that the three had been able to become close friends with Frodo at all. The blue-eyed hobbit traveled frequently to the hobbit settlement in the town, running into his cousins and friends regularly and renewing the bond they had shared as young ones in the Shire. Merry and Pippin were always troublemakers, and ones people could look to for a good laugh, and humble, loyal Sam loved his gardens, also keeping his father's loyalty and slight awe of the Baggins family.Sam treated Frodo with an odd mix of friendship and superiority, acting like the dark-haired hobbit was both a close comrade and a Lord. None of the other hobbits truly knew what Frodo thought when Sam called him "Mister Frodo", but he neither encouraged nor stopped the gardener's attitude towards him.Unlike many of their kin, Sam, Merry, and Pippin were quite intrigued by the thought of adventure, the inseparable duo longing for excitement while Sam wished to see the world— and more specifically, the elves. So when Frodo had been ready to leave and go off into the world once more, the three other hobbits begged him to let them go with him. Truthfully, Pippin and Merry begged, while Sam just looked on hopefully from the sidelines and mentioned that traveling would be wonderful.After much debate and bargaining, Frodo agreed to let his friends come, making them promise not to do anything foolish and to do exactly what he said because it was dangerous out there. The hobbits accepted his terms readily enough, and by the following day they were ready to go. They left Dale and began a slow trek towards Mirkwood, where Frodo hoped to "see an old friend". Pippin wondered if the "friend" was the Elvenking everyone whispered about, while Merry claimed the friend was the elf who had saved Bilbo's life.For almost the entire journey, nothing worth mentioning happened, and by the time Frdod said they would reach Mirkwood by midday, Pippin had begun wishing something would happen. A higher power must have decided to grant him his wish, because not a half-hour later, spine-chilling howls had ripped through the air.When Frodo had screamed "Run!", none of the hobbits hesitated.They were still running.Pippin's breaths came in panting heaves as he forced himself to keep running, his chest burning from the extended frantic sprint he was enduring. The wargs had not caught up to them yet, but they were getting closer, each snarl and growl louder than the last as the space between the hunters and their prey decreased. The young hobbit did not know much about the wolf-like creatures chasing them, but he did know that they were fast enough to have caught the hobbits already. Most likely the orcs were playing with the halflings, extending their misery and terror."Unpleasant thought" was an understatement."Keep going!" Frodo shouted from slightly behind Merry and Pippin. "See the trees up ahead? That's Mirkwood!"Pippin could indeed see the trees. Only a blind creature would be unable to spot the black, scary-looking wood, each limb sticking out like spears ready to impale anyone who got too close. The reddish-haired hobbit personally did not want to go into those woods, but he would rather face scary trees than the teeth of wargs. He ran on, speeding up and overtaking Merry at the thought of safety.He did not look back until he heard Sam cry out, horror in his normally humble voice. "Mister Frodo! What are you doing?!"The young hobbit dared to glance behind him, and his heart froze in his chest. Frodo had stopped running, standing his ground as the pack of wargs came at him, Sting glowing blue in his hand."Get to safety, Sam." the blue-eyed hobbit said loudly but calmly. "I'll hold them off."No you won't, you'll just be killed! Pippin screamed mentally, slowing down.He wanted to dash back to Frodo's side, but what could he do? He had no sword and even if he did, he could not fight the wargs. And he knew that even with his sword-fighting abilities, Frodo did not stand a chance either. He would just be a short distraction in the hope that he other three would have time to escape.The realization hit Pippin hard. He could not let Frodo sacrifice himself. The young hobbit picked up the nearest weapon-like object near him— a rather thick stick. Beside him, Merry and Sam seemed to be having the same idea as he, and together they ran back at Frodo, reaching him before the incoming wargs."I told you to run!" Frodo said voice taut with fear and anger."Never, Mister Frodo." Sam said solemnly, hands shaking as he lifted his frying pan. "We'll never leave a friend behind."The wargs closed in, close enough for Pippin to see the cruel smirks on their grotesque faces. As one came within reach, the warg's teeth bared as it lunged, the youngest hobbit leapt forward, shouting as he swung at it with his stick.The warg fell sideways, Pippin staring in surprise before he spotted the arrow sticking out of the beast's throat. A shout in a beautiful language was heard and more arrows flew, striking down the next wargs in the pack. The green-eyed hobbit blinked and shapes shot past him and his friends, blurs racing towards the wargs.Before he could see what they were, an arm wrapped around his waist, and he cried out as he was whisked away with incredible speed. When he was able to focus on the world again, he realized he was beneath the black trees, his feet settled on moss and dirt.Pippin looked up, eyes widening with awe as he spotted the elf in front of him. Silver hair was pulled away from his face by braids, which fell down his back in waves, and calm blue eyes studied the hobbit."Are you all right?" he asked in a lilting, pleasant voice.Pippin stared at the elf, still stunned. "Um... Yes?"Outside of the forest, the wargs' howls and orcs' shrieks cut off, leaving a heavy silence. Pippin looked over his shoulder, spotting Frodo, Sam, and Merry as he did, and saw the rest of the elves returning. Their eyes glowed in the gloom, black blood thick on their swords, otherworldly and triumphant after defeating their sworn foes. In the shadowy forest the elves seemed to be glowing with an inner light, like gleaming torches holding back the darkness. Was it just Pippin, or did it seem darker than it was, like the branches had moved to close out the light?Frodo said something in the same beautiful language Pippin had heard before— Elvish?— and the silver-haired elf responded in kind. His blue eyes flicked over Sam and Merry before settling on Pippin, who shifted beneath the glowing gaze. Then the elf turned back to the dark-haired hobbit, speaking again in a low, gentle voice. Pippin thought he recognized Bilbo's name among the quickly-spoken words. Frodo frowned, worry, horror, and relief crossing his expression. The silver-haired elf then turned to the other hobbits."Welcome to Mirkwood, halflings of Dale. I am Aglar, Crown Prince of this realm."Upon hearing the words"Crown Prince", Merry, Pippin, and Sam all froze before bowing hastily to the elf. Pippin's mind, already buzzing with excitement, almost went into chaos.A Prince! He's an elven Prince! We were rescued by an elven Prince! None back home will ever believe this!"Thank you for rescuing us, my Lord." Merry said formally.Aglar nodded, accepting his gratitude, though a dark emotion flashed through his bright blue eyes, making Pippin internally shiver. "Orcs and wargs are the enemies of all people. We would never let them harm someone if we can prevent it."He said something to his fellow elves and most of the group vanished into the forest, disappearing in a blink. Only the Prince and two others remained with the hobbits."We will lead you to the Elvenking's Halls." Aglar told them. "Much has happened that your people are not yet aware of, and you should be told." His eyes once again scanned the hobbits, stopping on the youngest of their group as sadness entered his eternal eyes. "Yes, much has happened..."Nervously exchanging a glance with Merry, Pippin followed Frodo, Sam, and the elves deeper into Mirkwood. He had a feeling that his adventure would become much more than he had planned.LOTRLOTRLOTRTranslations:Delorcion/Delorcioni: my created form of "bastard/bastards", meaning "you freaking jerk"A/N: I hate that ending. I just had no idea how to end it! Grr. This chapter was really hard to write. I edited it a lot, particularly that dark section I warned you about at the top. The reason it took so long was because I was hesitant about even putting that in there. I finally decided to keep it. And if you don't understand what happened to the boy... Ask at your own risk. Its not pleasant.For those of you who keep asking: Fael, Bereneth, and Megilag will probably be in the next chapter. The reason they haven't shown up yet is because I was confused as to what places they had to go through on their way to Minas Morgul. I was having trouble finding a map of Middle-earth that had all of the cities, places, and lands labeled that was clear enough to see. I finally managed to get a copy of The Lord of the Rings (which I am now re-reading) and got a very helpful site from L.J. Gryphon that had estimated times traveled between places so that helped a lot. (Thank you!)Responses to Guest reviews: To Megan, hasslecastle, Kryst, Anony-Mouse, mngirl, Naomi, Larisya, and Aisha,:Thank you!To guest2000: Thank you! The rest of the main characters will be showing up within the next few chapters. Most of them, anyway.To .Ninja: Thank you! Yes, he did. ;)To LotR-HP-PJ: Thank you! Yes, I do.To EventingRules: Thank you! No, he isn't Shadowed.To Calenlassiel: Thank you! I can't get the image of stoic elves pulling each other's hair out of my head... XDTo "Emi": Thank you! You got more bonding time, although it was rather dark this time... :(Please review!


********** Page 35 **********

Disclaimer: I do not own Lord of the Rings.A/N: There are a couple time-skips through this chapter. I think I was pretty clear on them, but just so you are aware.LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Thirty-Four: White, Violet, and RedIt was thirteen days since the beginning of Fael, Bereneth, and Megilag's journey, fifteen since the rise of Void. Trekking on foot along Mirkwood's western border, the three Royals had just passed the southern part of the forest four days past, heading off into the lands south of their home. Night had fallen long ago, and the Royals had set up a small camp, with no fire.The Brown Lands were a dangerous place, long ago ruined during the last alliance between Elves and Men. Where once there were trees and the gardens of the Entwives, now there was nothing but desolation and barrenness. Large boulders and stones gave little shelter from the night, and odd, deep holes in the ground could hide any manner of creatures in their depths.Although he was not bothered by the chilled wind or silence of the night, Fael found that he could not sleep, his thoughts chasing away any hopes of rest. He worried about his brothers, sister, and father back in Mirkwood. He worried about Iãgaw and his deadly threat. He feared for Legolas, wherever he was, and prayed that he was at least all right.It was mostly thoughts of his younger brother that haunted him. No matter how much he wished it, no matter how hard he tried, he could not think of a way that Tithenlas was going to be unharmed and well when they finally did find him. Fael knew that in order for the Chant to work, Legolas had to be Light and alive, but that did not mean he was uninjured or safe. Images of his brother being tortured or laying curled up in a dark, cold cell appeared whenever the silver-haired Prince dared to close his eyes, and he trembled at the thought that his fears might be true.He tried to fantasize that Legolas had somehow escaped and was merely hiding somewhere in Middle-earth, but the chances of that were so slim that Fael almost laughed aloud at his own imaginings. At least once they reached Minas Morgul— no matter what else they found there— they would find the Witch-King. The Witch-King would know what had happened to Legolas, and Fael— along with Megilag and Bereneth— were all willing to do whatever it took to make the Nazgûl tell them.Megilag was taking the first watch now, sitting at the edge of their camp with his silver-gold hair turned the color of mithril under the moon. Deciding he would get no sleep tonight, Fael rose from his bedroll, going to sit beside his brother. Green-tinged hazel eyes turned to look at the silver-haired elf and Megilag gave his little brother an easy smile."Are you having trouble sleeping, tithen muindor?" he asked softly, though there was a hint of amusement in his expression.Rather than give a sarcastic response, Fael simply replied. "Yes."The teasing faded from Megilag's eyes. "You are worried about what we are going to find at Minas Morgul."It was not a question but the silver-haired Prince answered anyway. "Yes. I am afraid. Tithenlas has been lost for so long. Even if he is not a prisoner in Minas Morgul, I am terrified of what he will be like when we do find him. What if he does not recognize us, Megilag? Or what if he does, and hates us for leaving him in Darkness for so long?"Megilag mulled over his fears, eyes dark and distant as he gazed blankly at the stars. "If he does not remember us, we will have to help him to, of course." he said quietly. "And if he hates us... we will have to do everything in our power to help him forgive us." His gaze returned to his younger brother's filled with deep sadness."There is so much that could go wrong, and so much that may plague Legolas, but we cannot worry about the future now. Now, all we can do is reach Minas Morgul, and see what we will find there when we arrive." He leaned forward, patting Fael on the shoulder. "Do not worry, Fael. We will reach Minas Morgul, we will find out what happened to Legolas, and we will bring him home." His expression shifted, the cheeky grin returning, and said. "I just hope it does not take too long though. All of the ellith will be despairing until I return!"Fael found himself relaxing as his lovesick older brother returned, snorting. "And I am sure that Cook and her staff are rejoicing that you are not around to burn the Palace down."Megilag gave him a blank look. "Even I would be unable to burn Adar's Halls down.""You would find a way." Fael said solemnly. "Which is why you are not cooking on our journey."He laughed at his brother's dramatized mock-hurt expression, his fears trickling away for just a little while. While Bereneth slept, the two Princes stayed up through the night, merely talking about good memories and funny instances from the past. They did not worry about the future, or their family at home, or the Darkness in the world.All they did was enjoy each other's company through the night. They could worry again in the morning.LOTRLOTRLOTRThe image of serenity and strength, Glorfindel revealed none of his inner turmoil. As he had been doing every day since Esgal had been sent to assassinate Saruman, the Blarog Slayer wandered around the Palace, acting like he had a destination and purpose when in reality he did not. He was terrified, angry, and drained, only his natural elvish biology keeping him from having dark circles under his eyes and stress lines on his face.Erestor still had not woken, twenty days after he first collapsed. He had not shown a single sign of waking other than the time he spoke those odd three words in Sindarin. Daesīdh, Mornestel, Dūrcuil. Shadowpeace, Blackhope, Darklife. None could guess what the scholar had meant by his words, or even why he had uttered them, and nothing they had attempted afterward had any affect on the dark-haired elf.To add to Glorfindel's worries, his Gwador was currently on a mission to assassinate the former leader of the Istari. Esgal was skilled, and apparently Ciaran had taught him defenses against magic, but that did not stop the Vanya from fearing greatly for his little brother. The golden-haired elf had wanted nothing more than to throttle Amon for suggesting that Esgal go on such a mission, and reacted with a cool, distant anger to Elrond, Galadriel, and Celeborn.He would not have been angry at the three if they had told him of their decision before Esgal came up to him and told him about his mission. But no, instead he had learned after the fact, when his Gwador came to say goodbye. If Glorfindel had been an elf of a lesser status he would have shouted and raged at Elrond, but being a fellow Elf Lord he had taken to responding with cold detachment and icy glares whenever his friend spoke to or looked at him. Elrond took his passive antagonism in good grace, only cringing slightly and avoiding his icy blue eyes on occasion.The Balrog Slayer knew that if Esgal died, heads would roll. He did not care about Councils and Lords' decisions and rights, if his brother was killed on this mission there would be hell to pay for all of them. Specifically that orc-spawned Delorcion Amon. Actually, even if Esgal did come back unharmed, Glorfindel was still going to find a way to legally punish the adviser... Or maybe he would just find a way to hide the body.Raised voices interrupted his dark musings, and Glorfindel frowned as he recognized Haldir's, the Marchwarden's loud with rage. He hurried down the hall, to one of the rooms that the Galadrim had been staying in. The door was ajar, allowing him to see in, and any qualms he had about eavesdropping vanished when he heard his brother's name mentioned."...Esgal told me of your fight with the Mirkwood warriors." Haldir was saying, voice harsh. "You disgrace our realm and our Lady with your behavior.""That elfling told you a false story." one of the Galadrim replied, his own voice shaking with anger. "Everyone knows he is one of the Mirkwood warriors. Bloody stupid worthless Silvan elves—""Need I remind you that I am a 'worthless Silvan elf'?" Haldir asked coldly. "And Esgal is no more of an elfling than you are. In fact, if anyone is a child I believe that it is you."Glorfindel could almost imagine the expression on the Galadrim's face. Would it be horrified or angry? The Balrog Slayer smirked."I apologize, Marchwarden." the Galadrim said stiffly. He quickly changed tactics. "However, my other words are true. The assassin is an elfling when compared to us. He has obviously been brainwashed into believing the Galadrim are evil."Is this elf an idiot? Glorfindel thought with fascination and no small amount of annoyance. As if Esgal could be coerced into believing anything."Esgal is at least eight hundred years old." Haldir said mock-patiently. "But we are not here about Esgal. We—""Actually, he's only five hundred." a second Galadrim warrior spoke up for the first time. "He said so himself."There was a beat of silence, none of the elves speaking. The Balrog Slayer frowned deeply, shock becoming his forefront emotions. The source was not the most reliable, but could it be true? He knew Esgal was young, but he had believed that the assassin was at least six or seven hundred by now. Could he truly only be five hundred years old, just barely the age where young warriors were allowed to wield live weapons in spars?Five hundred years. There was something familiar about that number. Five hundred years old...Caught up in his musings, Glorfindel did not hear Haldir's continued lecture and list of punishments for the three warriors. Instead the Balrog Slayer walked away from the door, frowning as a thought flickered at the edge of his mind, refusing to fully form.Five hundred years. Esgal was five hundred years old. What was so special about him beign five hundred...?Glorfindel's body slammed into another, the other person letting out a startled yelp as he ran into the Balrog Slayer's firm form. Instinctively, the golden-haired elf reached out, catching the other before he could fully fall, and found himself smiling apologetically at Barhad."My apologizes, Prince Barhad." he said guiltily. "Are you all right?"The golden-haired Prince awkwardly shuffled the books and scrolls in his hands, reminding Glorfindel so greatly of Erestor in that moment— despite they opposite hair colors— that the Balrog Slayer felt a physical pang of pain."I am fine, Lord Glorfindel." Barhad murmured, bowing slightly to the Elf Lord.A few of the teetering scrolls and books slipped from his grasp, hitting the floor with loud thuds. Glorfindel winced, leaning over and retrieving them before the golden-haired Prince could."Let me help you with all of this."Barhad gave him a grateful look. "Le hannon."Both carrying a considerable stack, the Balrog Slayer and Elven-Prince made their way to Barhad's destination: his father's study. Apparently the scrolls were documents Thranduil needed to look over— Erestor always did that back in Imladris, Glorfindel thought with a wince— and the books covered the boring laws and rights having to do with the Council. The blue-eyed elf hoped Thranduil was looking for a way to punish those cocky Delorcioni for trying to stop his children from trying to find Legolas—Oh.Glorfindel froze in the hallway, forcing himself to keep moving when Barhad gave him an odd look. His mind reeled, fact and memory clicking, and shock once again overwhelmed him. Five hundred years. Legolas was five hundred years old. That was why the number had seemed familiar. He, Elrond, Erestor, and the Elf Lord's family had been in Mirkwood when the youngest Prince had been born five hundred years ago. They had been there when the last elfling in Middle-earth had taken his first breath of life.All had been shocked and overjoyed when they had heard the Queen of Mirkwood was expecting another child. It had been two hundred years since the last elfling had come into the world, and the elves had lost hope of any more being born in Middle-earth. Elrond himself had been deeply involved in the Queen's pregnancy checkups, making sure that the child was healthy and well.Part of his concern had been because Thranduil and Luineth were his close friends, another part had been because he— along with everyone else— had desperately wanted the child to be all right. An elfling born after so long was a sign of good luck and fortune, and if the babe died it would only bring despair and be shown as an omen to fear.Glorfindel still remembered the terror he and all had felt when Luineth had gone into labor early, Elrond working with the healers to bring the child into the world. They succeeded, keeping both mother and babe alive, and little Legolas had been welcomed to the family.Glorfindel was proud to say that he had been the first elf other than Elrond, a healer, or one of the family members to hold the newborn. It had taken hours to convince Thranduil to let anyone else hold Legolas— something that the Elvenking had been kindly teased for in the years before the elfling's disappearance— but somehow the Balrog Slayer had ended up holding the tiny babe.He could still remember the little one, so much smaller than other newborns he had seen, but with that tiny tuft of pale blonde hair. He had not opened his eyes, no matter how much Glorfindel and the others cooed and wished for it, only opening those silver-blue orbs for his Ada.Legolas, who had been thought to be dead for years, who was recently found to be alive, was five hundred years old and had pale blonde hair. Esgal, who had a secretive past and wandered alone for years, was five hundred years old and had pale blonde hair.The realization was not obvious, but seeing all the facts come together, Glorfindel could not believe that he had not realized it before. He kept outwardly calm however, refusing to gasp and run to Thranduil as fast as he could, because what if he was wrong?No. He was not wrong. Deep in his heart he knew it was the truth, but he could not fully believe it. Could Esgal— an assassin, his Gwador, the shy, strong young elf he cared about so deeply— really be Legolas?Even if he was not... Esgal was five hundred years old. Five hundred! Ai Valar, he truly was an elfling! But... if he was five hundred years old... that meant he was two hundred twenty-five when Glorfindel met him?! He was barely a hundred years past his majority when he had killed all those orcs like a seasoned warrior?! The Vanya took a deep breath, struggling to keep his reactions from showing.He would not begin overprotecting Esgal because of his age— Although if he was Legolas maybe he should... No, not even then. Esgal-Legolas needed to keep his freedom but if he was the Lost Prince then Thranduil needed to know as if the Elvenking would even believe him Ai Valar what should he do?!They reached the Sinda's office too quickly for Glorfindel's liking, the Balrog Slayer's mind still running in frantic circles. He set down the books alongside Barhad's, glancing at Thranduil, and winced at what he saw. The Elvenking looked tired and stressed, staring at a document without really seeing it.The Balrog Slayer had a feeling he was thinking about his youngest son, and worrying about him. Elrond got a similar look in his eyes whenever one of the twins or Aragorn came home injured. But at least they came home. Looking at his friend, Glorfindel realized that he needed to tell the Sinda of his suspicions, though it would bring the elf little relief. Esgal— Legolas?— was currently on a mission to kill a very dangerous opponent. That was not exactly going to reassure the Elvenking that his son would be all right."Barhad." Glorfindel said aloud, making Thranduil jump. Had the Sinda not even noticed them entering? "I need to speak to your father for a moment."The golden-haired Prince took the hint. "I need to go find Aglar."He left without another word or a backwards glance, bringing a small smile to the Vanya's lips. Barhad always was a polite and courteous one. The Balrog Slayer slowly settled into the empty chair beside Thranduil's desk, the Elvenking's blue eyes following his movements. He sat in silence for a moment, trying to think of a way to tell Thranduil what he believed to be true. He just hoped the Elvenking would not be angry or collapse in response to the news. The Mirkwood healer, Nestor, would not be happy with Glorfindel for bringing him an unconscious Elvenking. Again.The Vanya took a breath, speaking slowly and cautiously. "Thranduil, I have heard something today that I need to share with you."The Sinda put down his pen and rose an eyebrow at the Elf Lord, eyes slightly narrowed. "All right. Then share with me. It is unlike you to be so hesitant."I know, Glorfindel thought. But I have never had to tell you something so large, something that I may not even be right about. Still, beating around the bush was only a waste of time. Perhaps a blunt approach would be best. "I think that Esgal is the Lost Prince of Mirkwood, Legolas.""What?!"Two golden heads whipped around, facing the door, to see Bilbo and Frodo Baggins standing in the doorway, Bilbo's hand frozen as if he had just been about to knock. The younger hobbit looked stunned, eyes wide and face pale, but the older Baggins looked on the edge of a panic-attack. He walked into the room as quickly as he could, halting in front of Glorfindel and staring into his face with shocked eyes."How do you know Esgal's name? And what do you mean he's the Lost Prince?!"Well. That confirmed his suspicions at least, though Glorfindel was surprised that Esgal— Legolas— had chosen to reveal his birth name to the hobbit. The Balrog Slayer turned back to Thranduil, who looked pale but unsurprised by the revelation."...You knew." Glorfindel stated.Blue eyes met blue, and the Elvenking silently nodded. He gestured vaguely to two other chairs in the room, beckoning for the hobbits to pull up a seat. Slowly they did, and the two hobbits and one Elf Lord all stared at the Sinda, almost like children hoping for a bedtime story. But the story to be told was not even close to being one.Quietly, Thranduil told the others that yes, Esgal was Legolas, his son and the Lost Prince. He told them how he had discovered the truth in Dol Guldur and the events that happened there. He told them of his conversation with Radagast, and his decision why he could not tell Legolas the truth. And he told them why they had to do the same, revealing that trying to trigger Legolas's memories hurt the assassin badly.The study was silent for a long time after the Elvenking's revelations. No one could find the ability to speak, shock laying over them all like a heavy cloud. Esgal was Legolas, the Lost Prince. Legolas was Esgal, the amnesiac and secretive assassin they all cared for and loved.Who also happens to be on an assassination mission right now, Glorfindel thought, feeling slightly ill. No wonder Thranduil looks so stressed."Poor Esgal." Bilbo said at last, his voice barely above a whisper. "He has been through and lost so much more than he knows..." His eyes flicked up to meet Thranduil's before looking deeply at them all, filled with an odd type of wisdom. "I agree that we cannot tell the truth, but I know that not telling him will hurt, both him and us. It will do less damage than if we dropped this news on him, but it will still cause harm.""No matter what there will be grief when all is revealed." Glorfindel said grimly, heart heavy. "All we can hope to do is believe in the future, and that the fates will be kind enough to let us reveal the truth with the least amount of suffering possible.""That will not happen for a long while." Frodo murmured, almost making it a question. His blue eyes were dark with sadness. "If even showing him things that could bring back his memories causes him great pain, there is little we can do to give him his past back.""Yes." Thranduil agreed heavily. "I fear that if we tell Legolas the truth, he will try to retrieve all of his memories himself, and will cause himself unimaginable pain. If a connection from his past is enough for him to cry out and collapse, I fear what trying to retrieve full or all his memories will do to him. For his sake, this must be kept hidden, from him and everyone else. Do not tell your friends, do not tell your Lords, do not tell Esgal's friends. Not everyone will be so understanding."Glorfindel looked at the two hobbits, who were grimly nodding in unhappy agreement. He too closed his eyes and nodded once, silently vowing to not treat his Gwador differently because of what he had learned. Esgal did not need to be haunted by the past he could not remember, and Glorfindel would remain his brother until the assassin no longer wanted him. The Vanya doubted that day would ever come though.He would not let this secret lay heavily on his mind. He would not expect Esgal to be anything different than what he was now. He would not attempt to try to help the assassin retrieve memories that would not come, and whose failed retrieval would only cause him pain.The only thing Glorfindel would be unable to contain would be his protective instincts, and those already existed and would be easily explained away. Along with the Balrog Slayer almost hugging the life out of his brother once he returned from Rohan. And he would return. He would.For now, silence and ignorance was the best policy to deal with this revelation. He only hoped that, one day, the truth would be able to come into the light.If Legolas even came back, that was, the young elf's current mission lingering at the back of the Vanya's mind, more terrifying than ever. But now Glorfindel knew that if the worst came to pass, he would not be the only one potentially going on a justified killing spree. The Balrog Slayer just prayed his brother would be all right.LOTRLOTRLOTRJust outside the door, hidden from the sight of the people within, a figure stood, listening intently to all being discussed within the Elvenking's study. His mind was blank with shock, the revelation of Esgal's identity as unexpected as it could be... beneficial.Thoughts once again processing through his mind, the figure felt a cold smile form on his face as he planned what to do with this new-found information. How helpful of the Elvenking to say exactly what memory-triggers did to "Esgal". That rebellious assassin may be a Prince in blood, but he was no superior of his, and the figure would be sure to let him know it.Prince or not, "Esgal" would pay for humiliating him.The figure turned on his heel, striding away from the Elvenking's study, that triumphant smile still on his face. He would tell no one of what he heard this day. After all, all of these secrets would only make his revenge easier to obtain, and wonderfully more sweet.LOTRLOTRLOTRNight had fallen, dark shadows stretching through the trees surrounding Isengard. Legolas was perched on one of the strong limbs, studying the tower with eyes that pierced the night easily. The journey to the White Wizard's stronghold had taken twenty-two days, most of them consisting of riding on horseback with Aragorn. The man was somewhere behind Legolas with the elf's horse, the two separating a few days before. The horse was a good companion— the assassin had learned to ride after escaping Dol Guldur— and the man was a close friend and strong warrior, but both had no place in a mission such as this.Legolas was on a mission to assassinate a powerful target. This was what Ciaran had truly trained him for, the basis of all his trials and skills. He had never outright assassinated someone before, not like this, and could not help but feel just a little nervous. But he would succeed. He had to. If he did not, it meant Saruman would live to fight against the Free People. And failure also meant death for the assassin.Legolas had spent the last few hours observing the patrols of orcs parading around and atop Isengard's tall walls. From the trees, he could see the orcs clearly, though they could not see him. He took a moment to wonder why Saruman had not cut down all the trees around his tower— Maybe he was afraid of angering the Ents that lived in Fanghorn Forest nearby— before pushing the thought away.It was time to move.Blending in with the shadows he jumped down from the tree and dashed forward, past the patrol that had just passed by. Without slowing he leapt, landing a few feet up the seemingly unclimbable wall. Unclimbable for anyone who was not an elf, that was. Silent, he climbed, scaling the wall as easily as a fish swam through calm water.He flipped up onto the top of the wall, right behind an orc that was walking right by him. The orc turned but Legolas struck it in the throat with his hand, cutting off its air before it could scream. The assassin grabbed the guard and pressed a point on the back of its neck, twisting his fingers lightly. The orc jerked then slumped, looking as if he were only sleeping, not dead. It would take a while for his comrades to notice the difference.Legolas leaned it against the stone and glanced down the side of the wall, gauging the distance. He jumped, landing lightly inside the courtyard, still without making a sound. Without a pause he ran across the courtyard like a hunting wolf. Silent, unseen, and swift.The tower itself had no handholds but that did not affect the assassin. He retrieved his climbing-claws from his sleeves, slipping them over his hands, and began. The sharp, hard metal cut easily into the tower side, and the elf ascended swiftly.Saruman's room was at the top of the tower, the highest room. There was only one door other than the balcony, which meant there was only one way for other enemies to enter, and only one way for the Wizard to try to escape. Legolas doubted that the Istar would call for help if he had the chance to. He was too proud to ask for assistance against a cloaked figure he would assume was a man. If he saw Legolas at all.However, Wizards had senses on par with an elf's— most of the time— so Legolas was ready for his target to sense him and fight. Legolas believed in Ciaran's teachings about defense against magic, though he had had little chance to use them for real. He could do it though. He had to.The assassin reached the top of the tower, the balcony doors open as if they were inviting him in. He could sense the Wizard's presence inside the room, awake and aware, and knew that the Istar could also sense him. A fight it was then.Hood and face-mask up, knives drawn Legolas stepped into the room, one with the night. Saruman stood out amongst the darkness like an evil moon, his white robes almost shining in the dark. His staff was held in his hands, and he looked calm and aloof as his eyes tried to find the violet-eyed elf in the darkness."I can sense you, assassin." the White Wizard said in his bold, charismatic voice— a voice which had no affect on Legolas and only made him loathe the corrupted Istar more. "I knew that the elves would be angry when they learned of my choices, but I truly never thought they would send a man to kill me."Legolas was almost amused. Saruman believed he was a man. Good.Saruman's eyes still blindly looked for the hidden assassin. "Why don't you step into the light? You need not work for those pitiful immortals. I will pay you four times as much if you return to your masters and kill them all for me."The elf was behind the Wizard now, silently analyzing whether Saruman would have time to turn before his knives met his heart...The Istar stilled, turning sharply, and looked directly at Legolas.Saruman smiled. "There you are."The Wizard gave a shout and something slammed into the assassin, pushing him back with the force of a hurricane. Legolas gave a soundless gasp as the spell pinned him in place, the elf refusing to fall back while the spell tried to force him into the wall behind him. Saruman's spell beat against him, trying to pin him against the stone.Then the magic around him shifted, grabbing rather than shoving, and Legolas found he could barely move his arms away from his sides. The assassin gritted his teeth, straining against the invisible, giant hand that held him. Saruman still smirked at him."I activated my most powerful sensing spell the day after I learned my plan failed, just in case a little uninvited guest like you decided to drop by." he explained condescendingly. "It just took a while for me to locate your exact position. Even with your skill at hiding your presence, you are still too light to hide from me in my home."Legolas did not speak, silently cursing himself. Saruman was more powerful than he had thought if he had managed to sense the assassin's aura. He strained against the spell that kept him immobile once more, glaring at the Wizard although the Istar could not see his eyes."Now I will kill you, foolish man." the White Wizard hissed, staff rising.The elf knew that the curse would be a killing one, one unable to be blocked or avoided. Saruman was taking no chances against the assassin that had almost managed to hide from him and would want to utterly obliterate the one that had managed to get into his tower. The only good news was that meant the spell would be a complicated one. The bad news was that Legolas would have time to think before he died.No, the assassin thought grimly. I will not be killed, especially not by a traitorous Delorcion like him!Ciaran had taught him better than this. His mentor-father had trained him to be immune against all magic. The magical bonds that held him were nothing compared to Dol Guldur's old Darkness, the Darkness that had tried to crush him and his spirit so long ago. He would not be stopped by a orc-spawn Wizard's magic! Legolas's eyes narrowed and he pushed against the magical energy that held him.He moved forward a step, the magic flinching and scuttling around him like startled crabs.Saruman stiffened, halting in the middle of the curse he was casting. With an angry snarl he started over again, though he now watched the assassin in amused confusion. Legolas gained another step, then one more, his movements become easier with each step he took.The corrupt Istar began to chant faster, pointing his staff at the elf. Legolas forced himself forward three more steps, ignoring the spell that struggled to hold him back. He strained, as if pushing against a strong wind. Another step.Saruman was watching him with horrified fascination, still chanting the complicated spell that would unavoidably kill the assassin. The Wizard wanted to back away but could not, forced to stay still until the curse was completed. Even Saruman's oh-so-powerful magic had limits.Legolas halted in place as the spell fought against him, desperation lending strength to the magic. His eyes narrowed into thin slits, only a small sheen of violet visible between his lashes. He growled, low in his throat, and for a moment his eyes turned black."You won't contain me." he snarled, and shoved forward with all his might.The spell shattered like glass. Saruman jerked and gave a scream of pain and surprise as his spell's breaking backlashed, hitting him like a punch to the stomach. The Wizard looked up and flinched as the assassin appeared in front of him, knives slashing. Instinctively, the Istar blocked with his staff.Shink.Legolas's elven blades sliced through Saruman's staff, cleaving it in three. The sliced off top section hit the floor with a thud and the White Wizard stared in disbelief at the two pieces of useless wood in his hands. Bewilderment, shock, and anger warred for dominance on his face."You..."He looked up to see that the assassin was no longer in front of him. Saruman felt something cold and sharp touch his neck. The traitorous Istar froze. He could feel cold eyes glaring at the back of his head. The Wizard swallowed hard but his voice remained strong."They are just using you, you know."Legolas's icy anger only grew at the white-robed Istar's words. He truly was a cowardly snake. The assassin could sense the magic in Saruman's words almost screaming in pain as it came into contact with his mental shield, leaving him utterly unaffected by the Wizard's attempted mind-compulsion.Seeing his voice was not working, the Wizard opened his mouth to speak again. Legolas did not let him. His blade moved, sharp and swift, slashing open the corrupt Istar's throat. Saruman fell to the ground, dead before he hit the floor. Crimson blood stained the Wizard's pristine white robes, turning them a color more appropriate for the fallen Istar.For a moment, Legolas looked down at the deceased White Wizard's corpse, violet eyes blank and emotionless. Then he shook his head, and left via the balcony without another word.By the time an orc captain entered to the room and sounded the alarm, the assassin was long gone.LOTRLOTRLOTRIt took almost twenty-five days, but Iãgaw was finally finished. He had done what he had sought to do, and now all he had to do was wait for his gifts to the Free People to awaken. It would take a while, but the wait would be worth it to see the miserable creatures of this world suffer. And how he wanted them to suffer. They deserved all of the pain and misery he could give them before he slaughtered them all.Once he obliterated and devoured all of the life in Middle-earth, he would move on to his the true focus of his conquering and revenge: the Valar. Above all else, they were the ones he wished to destroy. Them and their Lord, Eru Illuvatar.Before Eru had created the universe, there had been the Void. Before there was light, stars, or life, there had only been darkness and blackness. There had been no Valar, no Maiar, no elves, men, dwarves, or hobbits. There had been no earth, trees, wind, water, or sun. Before there had been anything, there was nothing. Only blackness. Only emptiness. Only him.Iãgaw was not seeking to erase Arda from the universe, he sought to return this dimension to its proper state. And if destroying all life on it, within it, and even it was what was required to bring back the true Darkness of the Void, well, it looked like Iãgaw had no choice in the matter, now did he?He felt no pity for the creatures he would kill, once in this land, perhaps again in the next, before eradicating their very souls so nothing remained. He wanted to bask in his victory, to stretch it out as slowly as he ripped apart this world, as if he were pulling the innards from a creature's gut as it screamedThose that followed him— willing or not— would be used and discarded at his leisure. They were pawns, of no real worth to him other than to give him little ants to command while he sat back and watched as the other ants were massacred. If things were done too quickly, and he himself destroyed all, then the creatures would not be given time to fear him, and he would run out of wonderful delicious lights to devour and smother too fast.His conquering of all life would be sweet. And it would be delightfully slow. After all, he had all of the time in the world, and little to fear.Only one thing threatened him. More specifically, three things. The Three Black Weapons. They haunted him, like a mocking light in the shadows of his Dark mind. A beacon of hope for the Free People if they ever discovered them, and a reason for fear for the Void. If they existed, that was. Still, the mere thought of the Weapons sent a shiver of what could only be terror up the demon's spine.The Weapons could kill him. The Weapons could destroy him. They could end his existence. He refused to cease to exist. He would not become true nothingness, the absence of anything at all— even Darkness. It was true that he sought the destruction of all that was not him, but he also sought another thing: to survive. He, like all sentient creatures, feared the expurgation of his existence. Not death— for he would not die— but the absolute obliteration of his entire being. Of his... "soul" if one could call it that.He knew that if the Weapons existed he would not be able to see them with his Shadows. The Valar were fools, but they were smart enough to hide the Weapons from his sight. Iãgaw would not be able to find the Black Weapons. But he would know if the Free People did. And so the Void did not truly worry, because if the Free People did discover the Weapons, the solution to his problem was simple: Kill the Wielders, and destroy those blasted Weapons in Mount Doom.Iãgaw retreated from his meditative thoughts, rising to his feet and walking out of the room he had stayed in for almost a month. He cast his sixth sense— the one connected to his shadows— over the lands around him in a short scan, smiling to himself. His orcs, men, and Shadowed Elves had followed his commands, and were raiding and killing all across the Realms of Men.The men's terror and deaths lifted Iagaw's heart, and he found himself almost smiling. The creatures of this world may be ants, but their demises were still satisfying and enjoyable to witness. Though it was a pity that the Void could not sense any more elves. They must have all died in his initial attacks. It did not matter, he would consume their Lights when he invaded Mandos's Halls.Speaking of the Halls— Now the demon did smirk.— it had been entertaining to break through the defenses around the home of dead souls. He had retrieved what he needed to make the gifts he had prepared for the Free People and left, leaving the Halls and Mandos in panicked disarray. And the Vala was supposed to be powerful. Pathetic was a more accurate term.Iãgaw emerged outside of Minas Morgul, the Witch-King rushing towards him the moment he spotted his Master. The Ringwraith bowed low."You have returned, My Lord." the Nazgûl said reverently. "Were you successful?"Would I be out here if I were not, fool? Iãgaw thought with a mental hiss, but his expression remained bored. "Yes. And before you ask, my creations must sleep a while before they will awaken, and I will not tell you what they are until then."The Witch-King flinched and bowed lower, head down. "Of course, My Lord."The Void stood silently for a moment, scanning the world once more before speaking again. "I have a task for you, Witch-King. There is someone I want you to retrieve and bring to me, unharmed."He sent an image of the man to his servant's mind, the Nazgûl gasping in pain as the mental force struck him. However, Iãgaw's annoyance with his slave decreased a bit when the Ringwraith stood up straight, recovering."Take your fell beast and retrieve him. Cause as much chaos as you wish." the demon said, ruby-colored eyes gleaming. "It is time that the people of Edoras learned fear."LOTRLOTRLOTRTranslations:Tithen: LittleMuindor: BrotherGwador: Brother (sworn)Le hannon: Thank you.(Note: You may notice that I keep switching back and forth between using the English and Sindarin versions of these words/phrases. That is because I cannot decide which I want to use sometimes. :P)A/N: ...And Iãgaw's back. Uh oh.YOU MAY WANT TO READ THE FOLLOWING: Legolas assassinating Saruman was actually one of the first scenes I wrote for this story. The moment I realized I was going to make Legolas an assassin, I wanted him to kill the White Wizard, and wrote down the fight scene immediately. Here are the reasons Legolas won so "easily": 1) Saruman was being an arrogant, prideful ass/idiot who wanted to defeat the unknown assassin with that single spell because he is a one-track minded git. (If you want a further explanation for this part, ask me). And 2) Legolas is resistant and has had the most training against Dark magic. Here's what I am trying to say with that: in a fight, Saruman stood no chance against Legolas because the elf grew up constantly resisting and growing immune to the Darkness/Dark Magic in Dol Guldur. However, a fight between say, Gandalf, and Legolas would have Legolas having more trouble because he has had less training/resistance to Light Magic. Like, if Gandalf used a similar spell to the one Saruman did, Legolas would have trouble breaking free. Does that make sense?I finally got some Quest Royals time in! :D I originally had a fight planned but I delayed it because I wanted to focus on the Legolas vs. Saruman fight.By the way, the Weapons are not hidden in Mirkwood. (That would be too easy.) In other words: There is another place Iãgaw cannot "see", though it is not in any of the Free Realms. That's all I am revealing now. ;)And finally, three more people know! :D :D :D But that figure with ill intentions also knows... D:Thank you for all of the inspiring reviews! :DResponses to Guest reviews:To Guest, Guest, TiTaN, Naomi, guest 2000, Aisha, and Larisya: Thank you!To lotrlover2931: Thank you! It is going to be a while. If he drops the news on him, it will only end in suffering and pain. Literally.To emi: Thank you! Hmm... a situation where Esgal learns something from someone... I might be able to do that. :D The dwarves haven't shown up yet, but they will in a couple chapters. You'll hear about them after we return to Mirkwood so... chapter after next chapter.To Guest: Thank you! The blunt answer: he was being eaten alive. (Major horror and ew, I know.)To Kryst: Thanks for reviewing! Yeah, he really does. :(Please review! Reviews make me happy. :)


********** Page 36 **********

Chapter Thirty-Five: EdorasEdoras was an intriguing city. Befitting the men who lived within its walls, the buildings and architecture almost worshiped the horses they rode. As he handed the reigns of his mount to a stableman, Legolas idly noted every horse-shaped bust and tapestry on the structures around him. It had been a while since he had stepped foot inside Edoras, at least seventy-five years perhaps. The people here were kind, but they were more wary of elves and their "magic" than others of their kind.Here was one of the places where rumors of the "Elf-Witch" ran rampant, and although he enjoyed the ways of the Rohirric, the violet-eyed elf did not visit this place as much as he did others in the world. The last thing he wanted was for anyone to run away screaming because he was an elf.Legolas's hood was up, his face-mask covering him up to his eyes, and as he followed Aragorn through the crowds of people walking through the streets his resolve to make sure none knew what he was only grew. Two wives were whispering outside of one of their homes, their conversation too low for the mortals around them to hear but loud enough for the assassin's sensitive ears."...Heard another village was attacked by those demon-eyed Elves." one was saying in hushed tones. "My sister was visiting an old friend there. I hope she is all right.""I always knew those elves would turn on us one day."the other woman said darkly. "I'll bet that the Elf-Witch did some terrible magic on her people, making them lose their minds and fall into Darkness."It was a demon, not Galadriel, Legolas thought irritably. And if you weren't too caught up in the gossip you have heard, you would know that most elves would never fall to Shadow and "turn" on you! Bloody ignorant prejudiced fools—!"(Is everything all right, Esgal?)" Aragorn asked his friend quietly in Sindarin. "(You were reaching for your knives.)"Had he been? Legolas let his hands drop, sighing softly. "(It is nothing, Estel. People here just have poor opinions of elves.)"The Ranger frowned. "(Indeed. I know that Theoden and his kin do not hold such prejudices, however.)" He smiled, eyes twinkling. "(Just make sure to keep your aversion to horses to yourself. The Rohirrim will not be happy if they learn you do not like their favorite animal.)"Legolas glared at his friend. "(I do not have an 'aversion' to horses. I like horses perfectly well. I merely like to walk instead of riding everywhere. With horses, you are forced to stay on civilized paths, while you may travel where you wish without being noticed while traveling on foot.)"Aragon was silent a long while before he responded. "(... I see. You are used to traveling in secret.)""(Indeed.)" the assassin said, attention shifting away from their conversation. "(Estel, there is someone following us.)"The silver-eyed man did not tense, still walking casually. "(Where?)""(The aura I sense is fifteen yards behind us, just behind that building with the furs that we just passed.)" Legolas told him, not mentioning that the shape, height, and size of the aura suggested their shadow was a woman.Although Aragorn was raised by elves, he still held a little of the mannish belief that women were less of a threat than men. Legolas thought that was incredibly stupid of the Ranger and men in general, and he knew that his friend's reaction to their pursuer would change if he let the other know it was a woman. That would not do at all if it turned out the woman spying on them was a threat."(Let's confront him up ahead.)" Aragorn said calmly. "(You know what to do.)"Legolas nodded and the two turned the corner into what could be considered a small alley. The elf climbed up the wall, hiding himself from the street, while Aragorn went up ahead, halting just around the next corner.The assassin watched a cloaked figure walk into the alley, the woman's steps slowing as she realized her targets were gone. She hurried towards Aragorn's position, skidding to a halt as the man stepped out in front of her."Why are you following us?"Th woman's arm jerked, metal glinting in the light, but the Ranger grabbed her arm, pressing a point Legolas had taught him and forcing her to release the weapon. The woman gasped and stumbled, her hood falling back to reveal flowing blonde hair. She tensed as if to flee, but the assassin dropped down behind her, putting a knife to her throat. The woman froze. Aragorn, who had drawn his sword after relieving the cloaked figure of her knife, stared at the revealed female in shock."You are a girl?!"Indignant eyes glared at him. "And you are a pig."Aragorn gaped, then rearranged his features into a calm expression. His eyes still showed his bewilderment however. "Esgal, let her go."He sheathed his sword. Legolas did not, keeping his knife where it was."She tried to stab you, Estel." the assassin said neutrally. "In case you have forgotten.""That was an accident." the woman said, half angry, half embarrassed. "He startled me."Legolas rose an eyebrow at her even though she could not see it. "So you walk around stabbing citizens who startle you? I saw your movements. You are trained. So before I release you, please answer the question of the man you tried to poke with your dagger: Why are you following us? And who are you?"The woman scowled, chin tilting upward the slightest bit. "I am Eowyn, niece and ward of Theoden King. I am also a Shieldmaiden of Rohan."Legolas studied her for a moment, sensing no deceit in her words, and let her go, stepping back and sheathing his dagger. He crossed his arms, looking at the woman steadily. "Why were you following us?"Eowyn looked uncomfortable for a moment before she hid it behind a blank mask. "We do not get many travelers here anymore. We have not for the past month. I was interested as to why you were here... so I followed you."Esgal sighed and bowed slightly to the Shieldmaiden, who looked taken aback. "Greetings, Lady Eowyn. I am Esgal, and this is Aragorn, Son of Arathorn, and adoptive son of Lord Elrond. We have come to tell grave news to your uncle, the King."Eowyn processed what he had said, cheeks coloring as she realized who she had called a "pig". "I will lead you to my uncle's halls." she said hastily.They walked up to the Golden Hall of Edoras the guards not halting them because of the Lady who led them into the building. They did look as if they wanted to stop Legolas— They must think I am an assassin, the elf thought with amusement— but backed off when Eowyn waved them away. Theoden King sat upon his throne at the end of the hall, speaking with his son and the Crown Prince, Theodred on his right, while a pale-faced, black haired man hovered in the shadows at his left.The moment he spotted the man, Legolas did not like him. More specifically, the moment he became aware of the rancid, disgusting, vile aura that surrounded the man, the assassin disliked and distrusted him. His eyes hidden by the cowl of his hood, the violet-eyed elf studied the disgusting man with narrowed eyes, fingering a small throwing knife. The man was not trustworthy, was not an ally, and was most definitely a threat.Standing over to the side, the blonde-haired man who must be Eowyn's brother, Eomer, was the first the first to notice the newcomers. He cleared his throat and his uncle and cousin looked up. Theoden straightened, eyes sweeping over Legolas before landing on Aragorn."Aragorn, son of Arathorn. It was not long ago that I partook in a meeting with you. You coming to my halls so soon after does not bode well. What brings you to Edoras?" The King's eyes once again went to the cloaked elf. "And who is your companion? I am surprised that my guards did not make him reveal his face before they let him enter here."'He' is right here and would appreciate it if you spoke to him directly, Legolas thought, but kept his silence."This is Esgal of Mirkwood." Aragorn introduced his friend....I would really rather you had not told them I was an elf."An elf!" Disgusting-Man shouted, jerking forward with an enraged expression on his face. "You have brought one of those creatures here?!"Legolas breathed in. Out. In. I will not throw a knife at him. I will not throw a knife at him. I will not throw a knife into his ugly face—"'Creature' is a rather degrading term." the assassin said, voice icily polite. He looked directly at Disgusting-Man, knowing his eyes were blazing brightly with rage, and felt great satisfaction when the man flinched. "And if you are as insulted by my presence as I am by yours, I will leave now." Before I change my mind and see how you look with knives sticking out of your eye sockets."He meant no offense, Master Elf." Theoden said smoothly. "my adviser, Grima Wormtongue, was just concerned due to the reports we have seen about evil elves.""That is why we are here, Theoden King." Aragorn cut in. "We have come bearing terrible news."He told his listening audience about Iãgaw, the Shadowed Elves, and the fallen Elven Realms. He told them of the Sanctuary in Mirkwood, of the powers Iãgaw possessed that they may face, and regretfully told them there was no known way to kill the demon. He told them about who had been warned and any plans that had been formed in order to try to counter this threat, and so on.Legolas did not join him in his explanations, instead watching Grima like a wolf watched a small crow. The man shifted and looked about himself, paranoid, though he could not see Legolas's eyes beneath the cowl.The King of Rohan sat back in his throne, eyes dark and head bowed low as he thought. "This is grave news indeed." he murmured. "So this "Sanctuary" is the only place in Arda that is truly safe?""Yes, Theoden King." the Ranger said. "We believe—"Screeeeeaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!A high-pitched, shrieking scream ripped through the air, the men crying out in shock and covering their ears as the painful noise assaulted their eardrums. Legolas flinched but did not cringe, eyes narrowing with hate as he recognized the infamous cry, just as the familiar, vile presence entered his awareness.The Witch-King!The assassin did not hesitate in running out of the Golden Hall, eyes scanning the sky. He spotted the fell beast swooping low over the buildings not far away, its screams and tail shattering buildings as it went. People ran about in a panic on the ground, while the soldiers of Rohan shouted orders and tried to shoot it down. Rubble fell into the streets, large stones striking fleeing mortals and sending them unmoving to the ground, buried or terribly exposed.Legolas did not rush into the chaos, instead keeping his eyes upward, his violet orbs following the path of the dragon-like creature. He resisted the urge to snarl as he spotted the familiar helm-wearing figure on the fell beast's back. It was undoubtedly the Witch-King. The assassin reached for his bow, and cursed as he recalled that he had left it with his horse. Of course this was the one time he did not have the weapon with him—!He made to run but a hand on his shoulder stopped him. He jerked his head around, glaring at Aragorn, who was also watching the Ringwraith in the sky. The man kept a firm hold on his friend's arm."Esgal...""Release me." the assassin said.Aragorn shook his head, silver eyes dark. "Esgal, that is the Witch-King of Angmar! It is said that no man can kill him!"Legolas's eyes darkened, turning from a bright violet to a more shaded hue. "But I am not a man, Estel. I am an elf!"With that he broke away, dashing towards the closest building. Panicking mortals ran around him but Legolas ignored them. He headed straight for the wall, leaping high and climbing swiftly up the building. It was not as high as he would like, but when the Nazgûl made his next pass—Legolas jumped as the fell beast flew by, landing behind the Witch-King. The fell beast bucked and moved beneath him but he balanced easily on its back. The Nazgûl Lord turned, fiery eyes widening with horror as he spotted the assassin."Well met, Master." the violet-eyed elf hissed, lunging for the Nazgûl.The Ringwraith leaned sharply to the side, the assassin's elven blade plunging into his shoulder instead of his heart. The fell beast, believing the movement to be an order to turn, flew sharply to the left. Legolas stumbled for a moment but regained his footing, again attacking his hated enemy.The Witch-King jerked the reigns, trying to shake the elf off, but Legolas refused to fall. His remaining blade met the Ringwraith's neck. With a swift swipe, the assassin sliced through...The Nazgûl's head separated from his body just as it turned to ash, exploding outward. Legolas stumbled back, unbalanced. Before he could recover the creature's tail slammed into his back. The elf went hurtling off of the black creature's back, the ground rushing up to meet him.Legolas braced himself.He hit the ground hard, rolling and skidding on the street. His bones jarred painfully and he felt the skin on his right arm break. When the assassin stopped he stumbled to his feet, breathing heavily as he watched the fell beast fly towards the ground at the edge of the city. The violet-eyed elf ran towards it, in time to see it dive into the shadows like it was leaping into a deep lake. It was only then that he saw the struggling figure in the creature's claws.Valar no... It took someone!"Did you kill him?"The assassin slowly turned to look at the wide-eyed boy that was standing just behind him. Innocent green eyes looked up at the elf, and the child asked again."Did you kill him? The Witch-King? Wasn't that the Witch-King? Mama told me about him. He's mean.""I..."Legolas slowly became aware of the people gathering around him and the boy. He looked up to see them all watching him, Aragorn, the Rohan Royals, and Grima among those looking at him expectantly. Most had fragile hope in their eyes, a brightness entering their gazes as they realized their feared enemy may be gone. Only one looked nervous and upset."Yes." the uncomfortable assassin said, raising his voice enough for all to hear. "The Witch-King is dead!"All around, there was silence. Then someone began to clap. Another set of hands joined the first, then another, and then everyone was clapping and cheering, laughing and hugging each other as they shouted their joy to the world.People rushed forward to thank and compliment Legolas, grasping his hands and patting his arm— which reminded him of the wounds from his fall. The moment they saw his pain the people were rushing, rushing, rushing to assist him in tending his wounds and they were so many and they were too close and he needed to get away—"Back away, please." Aragorn's voice rose above the happy chaos and he and Theoden swept through the crowd as they parted before them. The Ranger smiled kindly at the people who wished to assist Legolas, but with a look in his silver eyes to warn them to get out of his way. "I will tend to Esgal's wounds, thank you." Then he looked at Legolas, and his smile grew into one of awe and pure joy. "Well done." He gave a short laugh. "Well done, Master Elf.""He's an elf?" a familiar female voice whispered to her friend."Apparently so." the second woman murmured. "I always knew that they were wonderful people. I am so glad that they are our allies."Legolas shook his head wryly and followed Aragorn back to the Golden Hall. A small "Excuse me?" made him turn, and he spotted a young girl standing next to him, the Witch-King's abandoned helm in her hands."Do you want this?" she asked shyly. "Like as a trophy?"The assassin took the helm, staring at it and still unable to fully comprehend what he had done. He had killed the Witch-King. He had killed his "Master". They reentered the King's Halls, heading into a side room which held their healing halls. Others were already inside being treated, the healers ignoring the newcomers other than one that tried to approach Legolas. The Ranger's firm stare sent the healer scurrying away.Aragorn forced the violet-eyed elf to sit, setting the Witch-King's helm on the bedside table. He fussed over Legolas's scrapes and contusions, wincing as he studied the long gash the elf had received on his right arm."Washing will get most of the stones out, but I am afraid a few larger pieces will be harder to remove. You will probably need stitches.""It was worth it." Legolas murmured, eyes turning away from the black helmet and dropping to the objects still held in his hands. "It was all worth it..."The dark-haired man paused in his work, following his friend's gaze. He gave a small gasp, eyes clouding with sorrow. "Esgal... I am so sorry.""...Ciaran gave me these..." The assassin's voice cracked and he bit his lip.In his hands lay two bone hilts, all that was left of his elven daggers. The weapons had killed the Nazgûl Lord at a price, disintegrating the moment their job was done. Even they had not been immune to the effect of striking a creature that could not be killed. Legolas gripped the hilts tightly, resisting the irrational urge to cry. Ciaran had given him these blades, and he had fought with them for years, thinking of his mentor/father whenever he held the smooth bone hilts.These blades had killed many orcs, saved many lives by vanquishing those that threatened them, and been his most precious gift from Ciaran. These daggers had been beacons of light and goodness in Dol Guldur, hidden from the Darkness for almost as long as Legolas had shielded his true nature from the Nazgûl. The assassin should be happy that he had used them to kill the one that had kept him and his mentor prisoner for so many years. Instead he felt as if he had lost yet another important piece of his past.Aragorn finished pulling the stones from Legolas's arm, and began sewing the wound. The assassin barely felt the pain, still wallowing in his loss. He did not notice the Ranger was finished until the man placed a hand on his shoulder, squeezing it gently."When we get back to Mirkwood, the elven blacksmiths will reforge the blades. We can fix them." Aragorn told him."I know." Legolas said softly.He hesitated, then placed the hilts beside him, rising to his feet and walking over to the helmet that sat, dark and malicious, on the table. The assassin looked into the empty eye holes of the helm, then picked it up. He exited the healing halls, Aragorn at his side, and looked at Theoden King and his family, who were waiting just outside the door. Grima skulked in the shadows, but Legolas ignored him."I need a fire, the hottest one you have, my Lord." he requested in a quiet but strong voice.Theoden nodded silently and walked down the hall, Legoals following and the others trailing behind them. They went into the city, where the people were starting to clear up rubble, but all halted in their work and watched as the group passed. They exited Edoras, halting just outside, and Theoden murmured softly to a man there. The man nodded, shouting orders to his subordinates, who gathered wood for a large bonfire, setting it alight.Legolas stood before the leaping flames, staring into the empty eye-holes of the helm as shadows and flame reflected on the black, desolate metal. He stepped forward and tossed the helmet into the flames, watching as the Witch-King's helm slowly melted and deformed into an unrecognizable piece of metal. That too sizzled and faded away, leaving nothing left of the dreaded Nazgûl Lord.No one cheered. No one spoke. All was silent as they continued to watch the flames lick the sunny sky.And Legolas glared at the place where the helm had once been, speaking a single word. "Delorcion."He turned his back to the flames, striding forward, and the awed, respectful crowd parted as he passed.LOTRLOTRLOTRIãgaw shook his head in annoyance as the fell beast returned, with a burden between its claws but its rider noticeably absent. The demon had not watched the Witch-King's attack on Edoras, trusting the Nazgûl Lord to be able to complete his task without him. The Ringwraith had gotten the man that the demon sought, but even the Void had not expected him to die in this mission.Pathetic until the end. Now only seven of the Nine were left. For wraiths that were supposedly unable to be killed, they were dying rather easily. Iãgaw still could not wrap his mind around how Sauron ever expected to take over the world with servants as weak as that. Perhaps he himself should go and teach Edoras a lesson for killing his servant... No. Not yet. There was something else he needed to take care of.The fell beast deposited his package in front of the demon, the man stumbling to his feet. He shook his black hair out of his face, revealing angry brown eyes that glowered at Iãgaw. Tall and a little broader in the shoulders than an average man, this one's glare could be quite intimidating to other mortals, Iãgaw supposed.The scar on his cheek gives a nice dangerous touch, the demon decided, smirking."Hello Riagán." the Void said.Riagán, grandson of Drust, Dunedan, and exile of Blue Harbor, sneered at the demon. "What do you want, Dark-elf?"Rather than be insulted, Iãgaw's grin only widened. "You are not even the least bit afraid of me! I knew I liked you for a reason."The man crossed his arms over his chest, unimpressed. "I asked what you want. And who are you?""Do you know what I am?" the Void asked, circling around Riagán. The black-haired man did not turn to watch the demon, instead turning his distasteful gaze on the fell beast that was chasing some orcs nearby."No, and I don't particularly care." Riagán snapped. "What. Do. You. Want?""Fine." Iãgaw said with a sigh. "I am Iãgaw, the greatest Darkness in this world. I have a proposition for you, my intriguing mortal. You seek to destroy the one that wronged you years ago. The Ranger, known as 'Strider'. You wish to kill him.""How do you know about that?" Riagán asked suspiciously."I have my ways." the Void murmured. "That is why you are without fear, without cares, and without morals. You are cruel, ruthless, and positively murderous, caring for the lives of others as little as I do. I have been watching you for some time, and I have seen that all you care about is killing Strider. You have spent years trying to find him but the trail ended in Rohan, so you have had no luck tracking down your target. I, meanwhile, and in need of a leader for my armies. One who can think for himself, and is not a mindless slave. I believe that both of us would benefit if we worked together.""What can you give me that would convince me to join you?" Riagán asked with a scoff.Iagaw's eyes narrowed into almost-playful slits. "Strider's real name is Aragorn, and he is the Heir to the throne of Gondor."The man's attitude changed at once, all of his attention on Iãgaw.The Void smirked internally. I have you now. "I promise you that if you work for me, you will find Aragorn and get your revenge. I will specifically order my Shadowed Elves not to kill him— wound and maim him perhaps, but not kill— so that you may strike the final blow on the one that took everything from you. I will also give you any information on Aragorn that you ask for." Iãgaw held out a hand. "Do we have a deal?"Without hesitation, Riagán took it. "All right. Deal. But let me make something clear to you, Iãgaw." he growled, leaning in close. He was not afraid of the demon. "I don't care about who wins this war. I don't care about sides, the big picture, or the survival or destruction of this world. I just want that Ranger dead, and I want to kill anyone who aids him or gets in my way."Iãgaw's crimson eyes glowed like drops of freshly spilled blood. "I know. I am counting on it."LOTRLOTRLOTRTranslations:Delorcion: BastardA/N: OMG this chapter is so short! It's only like 4500 words! (Bangs head on desk) But I can't figure out a way to extend it! Noooooo... :((( Me: "Maybe I should wait a day to update and try to extend this." (Five seconds later) Me: "...Forget that. I'm uploading the short chapter so I can upload the next one!"I did a lot of debating on how I wanted to introduce Eowyn. I really like her character, but for some reason I wanted the first meeting between her and Aragorn to be incredibly awkward. And for her to stalk Legolas and Aragorn through the streets. I don't know why. XDOh, and a little explanation: When Legolas tilts his head up slightly and his eyes are glowing, his eyes can be seen when he had his hood up. But, most importantly... the Witch-King died! (triumphant dance) He's dead! He's dead! The delorcion is deaaaaaaddddd! He got his head chopped off! :D :D :D ...Wow. I never thought I would be cheering for something like that. O_O But still, yayyyyy! (I hope you all are as excited as I am. :P) Except... the Royals won't know that the Witch-King is dead...Thanks to everyone who followed, favorites, and/or reviewed!Responses to Guest reviews will be posted in the next chapter since this is a DOUBLE UPDATE! :DPlease review! (Even though there is another chapter up, could you review this one before moving on? Pleeeaaaasssseeeee? :) )


********** Page 37 **********

A/N: WARNING: MAJOR WARNING: This is a double update! If you have not read the previous chapter yet (called "Edoras") DO NOT READ THIS CHAPTER YET! GO BACK A CHAPTER OR YOU WILL MISS A LOT! GO READ THE CHAPTER BEFORE THIS! Thank you! :)LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Thirty-Six: No More Secrets, No More LiesLegolas was unsure whether he was glad to be back in Mirkwood or not. Although much of him did not wish to, he felt as if he were expected to return to the Elvenking's Palace. Glorfindel, Thranduil, and the others would want to see that he was all right, and the Council would want to know if he had succeeded, but the assassin found himself wishing he could avoid the Palace and just stay out in the woods.After I tell them of my mission, reassure Gwador and Thranduil, and have my blades reforged I will leave, he decided, even his thoughts carrying a tone of tiredness. I do not need to stay there. I have no obligation to. So why do I feel guilty about running away to the trees?As they went through the gates, Legolas spotted Glorfindel walking quickly towards them, a relieved smile on his face. The assassin dismounted from his horse and the Balrog Slayer swept him into a bone-crushing hug. The violet-eyed elf gave a small yelp of surprise at the strength in his gwador's grip."You are back." Glorfindel said, emotion making his voice waver. "I spent the entire time you were gone fretting like a worried hen. If those Delorcioni that make up the Council ever try to make you to do something like this again, I will murder the lot of them."Legolas pulled away from the Vanya, trying to discern whether he was serious or not. "I am fine, Gwador. Saruman is dead and I do not even have a scratch."There was no need to tell his brother about the Witch-King and his injuries yet. His arm was healed and he was fine so there was no need to worry the golden-haired elf."That's a lie." Aragorn proclaimed, quickly ruining the assassin's plan. "Esgal fought the Witch-King and killed him. He hurt his arm and got quite a few scratches."Legolas glared at his friend, who shrugged, unashamed. It took less than a heartbeat for Glorfindel to register the man's words."What? You were injured! And you killed the Witch-King? Why did you not tell me?"The Balrog Slayer carefully grabbed the young elf's arm, checking it for any lingering injury. The wound had healed in the time it had taken to return to Mirkwood, so there was no sign of it, but the Vanya was far from pleased."You need to tell me about these things." he scolded, sounding like a mother hen. "I cannot decide whether I am proud of you for killing the Witch-King or upset that you were hurt!""I am fine now." Legolas said. He gestured at his body, as if to emphasize his point. "Look. I do not have any scratches anymore."Glorfindel gave him an unimpressed look before sighing. "You are going to give me gray hair someday.""It will look good on you." the assassin said solemnly.The Balrog Slayer gave him a playful shove. "I would rather not find out. But fine, I will agree that you are currently uninjured and do not need me fretting over you." A scowl crossed the blue-eyed elf's face. "However, I am still angry that they sent you on such a mission in the first place!"The Balrog Slayer was definitely holding a grudge, and he would not be letting it go any time soon. Giving up, Legolas changed the subject, eyes wandering to Aragorn, who was being greeted by his brothers."Rohan has been told of Iãgaw. If the attacks become more frequent or Iãgaw shows his face within the realm, they are planning to go to Helm's Deep."Glorfindel frowned, eyes darkening. "Helm's Deep will not protect them from the shadows Iãgaw can send his forces through.""And it will also fail to protect them if Iãgaw himself attacks." Legolas agreed softly. "Aragorn tried to convince Theoden to come to the Sanctuary instead of planning on going to Helm's Deep if things become worse, but he refuses to abandon his lands just yet.""Mark my words, by the time he is willing to let farms burn and villages be plundered, it will be too late for his people." the Vanya predicted darkly. "We can only hope that Iãgaw does not choose to annihilate Rohan like he did the elven realms."The group walked into the Palace, Legolas staying at his brother's side as they moved through the halls. "What of Erebor, Dale, and Gondor? Have we received any word of how they have taken the news?""Dwarf-King Thorin knows of the threat, but few attacks have happened between Mirkwood and the Lonely Mountain. The Iron Hills have also evaded the daily raids that other realms are experiencing." Glorfindel grimaced. "It seems as if Iãgaw has decided to focus on the Realms of Men for now, almost ignoring all of Rhovanion completely.""Could the Sanctuary be the reason for that?" Legolas asked hopefully. Perhaps the magic was powerful enough to extend to the realms around Mirkwood...But the Balrog-Slayer was shaking his head. "Galadriel believes that Iãgaw has merely decided that he does not want to focus his forces here yet. Elves were the Lightest Race and the most connected with the Valar, so he destroyed them first. The Race of Men was predicted to become the primary Race and rulers of this world in the next age, so he is killing them next. If not for the Sanctuary, the dwarves would hole themselves up in their mountains, and Iãgaw could pick them off at his leisure."Legolas bared his teeth, eyes blazing. "I do not know much of the Void, but I hate him. Not only for trying to destroy everything, but for only leaving places unharmed because he wants to. He is like Saruman, that arrogant, power-hungry, and sadistic orc-spawn!""He is also invincible." Glorfindel reminded the young elf. "And until we find a way around that invincibility, we can only wait and offer shelter to others. As I was saying, there has been little activity in the Realms of Dwarves, so Thorin has decided to stay in Erebor for now, but is making plans to evacuate his people those of Dale, and those of Lake-town to Mirkwood if the situation calls for it. Same can be said for the Iron Hills, though Dain is less convinced of the threat.""What of Gondor?" the assassin asked. "Has the Steward sent word?"The golden-haired elf's eyes narrowed, an angry huff escaping his lips. "Thranduil received a letter from Boromir, son of the Steward. He informed us that he told his father about Iãgaw and the Sanctuary, but Denethor does not believe the Void exists, and refuses to even trust the word of the elves. The fine Steward believes we are trying to get him out of Minas Tirith so that we may put Aragorn on the throne of Gondor in his absence."Legolas stared at his brother in disbelief. "We are facing a threat that can obliterate life as we know it... and he is worried about keeping his throne?""Denethor said, as quoted by Boromir 'Gondor needs no help against this threat. We have been fighting the Shadow of Mordor for years and will continue to do so. We do not need assistance or trickery from those who lost their realms after a single battle.'"The assassin decided he did not like the Steward of Gondor. "What else did the Steward's son say?""He apologized for his father's words, and told Thranduil that he himself would be making plans of how to reach the Sanctuary if the need arose. However, he regretfully told us that his people would not be leaving the city unless it fell to the Enemy. As Captain, Boromir has the power to tell his men about evacuation without informing Denethor, but he cannot implement those orders without the Steward's approval."The young elf thought about this, fists clenching at his sides. "So many people are going to die." he whispered. "All because of their leaders' stupidity.""Yes." Glorfindel told him, deep sadness in his eyes. "In a situation like this, all we can do is try to save as many people as we can.""But even that will only prevent so much destruction," Legolas murmured. "We need to find a way to eliminate the threat at its source. We need a way to kill Iãgaw."The Balrog Slayer gave his brother a grim, heavy look. "Easier said than done, Esgal." With an effort his expression cleared. "So, how exactly did you manage to kill the Witch-King?""I beheaded him with my knives." the young elf murmured, thinking of the knife-hilts that lay in his pack.Glorfindel frowned, trying to discern the reason for his brother's melancholy, before his bright blue eyes widened in understanding. "Both disintegrated?""Yes." Legolas whispered, the loss still a sharp pain in his chest. "The blades are gone. Only the hilts remain.""May I see them?" the Vanya asked quietly.The violet-eyed elf nodded and retrieved his pack, taking the hilts from it and handing them to his brother. Glorfindel studied the broken weapons before nodding and looking up at the assassin."They can be reforged. I am sure Thranduil will have his blacksmiths complete the task within a few days."He gave them back to Legolas, who gripped them tightly in his hands.Glorfindel sighed, and gave the elf a reassuring smile. "It will be all right. They will be as good as new, I promise. You won't lose your gift from Ciaran.""I know that." the assassin mumbled, but looking at the useless bone-hilts of the weapons, he could not make himself believe it.LOTRLOTRLOTRIt was the middle of the next day when Amon approached Legolas. The assassin was immediately on edge, not trusting the adviser in the slightest although he knew that the elf was technically on the Light's side. Still, the prideful Sinda had tried to keep the Royals from going to find their brother, and he had a grudge against Thranduil, so the young elf would tread carefully.The adviser's expression caught Legolas off guard. He looked uncomfortable and hesitant, as if he were unsure of how to approach the other. When he saw that the assassin was watching him, Amon cleared his throat, shifting on his feet awkwardly."Esgal. I... feel as if I must apologize to you for my previous behavior." the elf said, voice stiff but sounding genuine. "I will be the first to admit that I sent you on that mission out of pettiness and anger, and for that, I am sorry."Legolas hesitated, surprised by the adviser's words, then nodded shortly. "I accept your apology. No harm was done, and I managed to eliminate two servants of the Darkness because I was sent out.""That is true..." Amon murmured, relaxing slightly and offering the elf a small smile. He shifted again, uncertainty entering his expression once more. "There is... something I wish to show you, if that is all right? Thranduil told me of your lost memories and I think it may help you regain a few."The assassin stilled, shocked by the offer. He looked at the adviser, eyes narrowing. "Do you know who I was?""I might." Amon admitted. "But I need to see something first before I tell you. I would rather not give you information if it may not be true."He walked down the hall, and after a heartbeat Legolas followed him. They passed many elves and hobbits going about their day, heading deeper into the Palace as the number of people around them slowly dwindled. The assassin recognized the hall they were entering, and a frown flitted across his face. What could the adviser want in the Royal wing?Amon halted at the second-to-last door on the left, glancing back at Legolas with his hand on the door handle. "In here, Esgal."He opened the door, Legolas cautiously walking inside......and collapsed to the floor with an agonized scream.Pain ripped through his skull, knives stabbing into his head and white-hot agony burning through his mind. He was in a room, an elfling's room, with a toy chest shoved in a corner and a bed with green covers near the other wall. But Legolas did not care about that because there was pain-pain-pain and he felt like someone was digging into his brain with a rusty spoon and it-hurt-it-hurt-it-hurt!Claws tore through his head, lines of agony etching through his mind, and Legolas gave a soundless wail as he writhed on the ground. Memories tried to come but they failed, how badly they failed, and he felt that he could weep from the loss.He actually was weeping. Sticky, thick tears trickled down his cheeks as strangled, soundless cries escaped his lips. He curled up, shuddering in agony, in too much pain to even scream aloud. His pain-filled mind begged for the agony to stop, just wanting to fall unconscious and let the pain end, but his mind refused to obey him, still hurting itself trying to bring that the memories that could not come.Then it was over, the pain vanishing as abruptly as it had come. Legolas shuddered and shook, trembling on the floor as he retched dryly. He felt a hand on his arm and tried to flinch away, but the hold was too strong and kept him in place. Amon leaned over and spoke softly to the assassin, breath tickling the young elf's ear."I knew that your reaction to this place would be terrible, but that was far worse than I could even imagine. Wonderful."Legolas could not find the strength to move or even open his eyes, focusing on trying to breathe without pain. He found himself unwillingly listening as the adviser spoke again, voice mockingly gentle and kind."I know who you are, Legolas. I know who you were before the orcs took you to Dol Guldur. Would you like me to tell you?"The assassin weakly shook his head and Amon laughed, cupping the young elf's cheek like a concerned father might."Of course you do, do not be silly now..." he leaned over, again whispering in Legolas's ear, a smile in his voice. "You recognize this room because it was yours, Legolas. You were the son of two Councilors of Mirkwood, the last elfling to be born in Middle-earth. However, rather than be joyous and love you, your parents despised you. Do you know why?"He paused as if waiting for a reaction, but Legolas gave none."They hated and feared you, because you were born with violet eyes. Unnatural, demonic eyes, they called them. You thought that your mental shield was the reason for your eye color, didn't you? That is a lie."The ability to move was returning to Legolas but he found he could not for different reasons other than pain."Your parents saw you as a bad omen, and wanted you to be killed, but Thranduil refused to let them execute you because you were the last elfling to be born in this world. He had you live here, in this room in the Royal wing, so that he could keep an eye on you and make sure none could harm you. But sadly, it did not work.""When you were five, your parents took you from the Palace and abandoned you. They left you in the forest to die. Luckily for you, some orcs came across you, and took you to Dol Guldur. You know what happened after that, don't you?"Legolas kept his eyes closed, unwilling to look Amon in the face.The elf chuckled. "Haven't you wondered why Thranduil has become so interested in you? He realized that you were the elfling all thought had died long ago. He realized who you were, and vowed to watch over and help you... because he feels guilty.""That's not true..." the assassin whispered in a hoarse, ragged voice.Amon patted his arm consolingly, unnecessarily hard. "I assure you that it is. Your Gwador also knows. He figured it out after learning that you were five hundred years old. All of your closest people know about your past, and they never told you. They do not trust you enough with the truth, I suppose."Amon's weight at his side vanished, the adviser standing up and leaving the young elf on the floor. "Do what you wish with the information I have told you, Legolas. But know that you will never belong here, or anywhere. You are, and always will be, a freak of nature." He walked a step before pausing. "Oh, and Legolas? You might want to wash yourself up. You have trails of blood down your cheeks."With that he departed, shutting the door behind him, and leaving the assassin on the floor.Legolas finally forced his violet eyes open, staring blankly at the closed door. He slowly sat up, keeping his eyes downcast to avoid looking around the elfling's— His?— room, and pulled his hood up over his head. The assassin stumbled to the door, turning the knob with a trembling hand.It could not be true. Amon had to be lying. But why else would he recognize this room in the Elvenking's Palace? And he had almost remembered the Queen of Mirkwood as well. Hadn't she been alive five hundred years ago?No. Legolas told himself firmly. Amon is a liar. He tricked me into going into that room, knowing it would hurt me. I cannot trust his word.But how had the adviser known the trigger for his memories would only cause the violet-eyed elf pain? The only one who knew about that was Thranduil... at least, as far as Legolas was aware he was the only one. Still, Amon was a liar and a delorcion. He had to be lying. He had to be. It could not be true."Esgal?"Legolas froze, fear and anger racing through him as he recognized the Elvenking's voice. He kept his head down, making sure to hide his face."There you are, I have been searching for you." the Sinda said with a smile, unaware of the assassin's turbulent emotions. "I have something for you. The blacksmiths just gave them to me."The assassin looked up slightly, eyes falling on the familiar, renewed blades that were in the golden-haired elf's hands. His own hands shook as he hesitantly took them, careful not to touch Thranduil."Le hannon, my Lord." he mumbled, stepping back and sheathing his blades.He kept his head down."Esgal..." There was concern in the Elvenking's voice, but was it even real? Did he care for the young elf, or only worry out of guilt? "Are you all right?"Legolas looked up, hood shifting back enough for Thranduil to see his face. The Sinda gasped, stepping forward and pulling the hood off, revealing the streaks of drying blood running from the assassin's eyes to his chin."What happened? Are you all right?" he asked, gripping the violet-eyed elf's shoulders.He pale blonde-haired elf froze in his grasp, eyes widening with fear. "D-Don't touch me!" he stammered, jerking out of the Elvneking's grip and retreating a few steps.Shock, fear, and guilt crossed Thranduil's face, his blue eyes darkening with an unknown emotion. When he spoke his voice was gentle, but Legolas shrank away from him like he was shouting. "What happened, Esgal? Tell me so I can help you."Legolas pulled his hood back over his head, hiding his face. When Thranduil reached for him, he backed away again. "Don't touch me." His voice was stronger now, more harsh, though it still trembled slightly."Legolas..." the assassin openly flinched at the sound of the name. "Please, tell me what is wrong."The Elvenking sounded as if he were begging, but why was he concerned? Why did he care? The assassin did not know the answer anymore. Legolas forced himself to separate himself from his emotions, not enough to turn his eyes black but enough to keep him from fleeing the hall. He had to know the truth. He had to face it. He could not run away from this. Thranduil would not lie if he asked....At least, the young elf hoped he would not."Amon brought me to a room." he began in a flat, emotionless tone. "It was an elfling's room, and it caused what happened with the Queen's picture... except it was much worse." He reached up, touching the dried tears of blood on his cheek. "I was unable to move on the floor, and Amon sat next to me, telling me things. He knew my name, he claimed he knew who I was... and he said that you knew as well."He saw fear and guilt cross the Elvenking's features, and all fear vanished, anger overwhelming his fragile control."So it is true. You know who I am!" Legolas snarled lowly, voice shaking. "Why won't you tell me? Is it true what Amon said? Did my parents leave me to die in the forest?"Thranduil blinked, looking surprised by his words, before his eyes darkened in rage. "That is what Amon told you? What other lies did he—?""Lies? Lies?!" The assassin shouted, and snarled at the Elvenking. "As if you were not lying to me as well! You know who I am! You knew this whole time!""Legolas..." the blue-eyed elf began."No!" Legolas shouted. "Do not 'Legolas' me. Tell me who I am, you delorcion! How could you keep the truth about my past from me?!""I was trying to protect you." The Elvenking explained calmly, though his expression revealed his pain. "I was afraid of what the truth might do to you—""You had no right to keep my past from me!" Legolas screamed. "You had no right at all! You aren't my guardian, and you aren't my father!"Thranduil flinched, despair so potent crossing his features that the assassin paused in his rage. The Elvenking took a shuddering breath, tears pricking at his eyes, and spoke in a soft, but shaky voice. "I am afraid... I do have a right, Legolas. You want the truth, so here it is... You are Legolas Thranduilion, Lost Prince of Mirkwood, and you are also my youngest son."Legolas stared at him, mind going blank. His violet eyes were wide with shock as he stared uncomprehendingly at the Elvenking.Thranduil stepped forward, reaching out as if to touch the young elf, and spoke the unbelievable words again. "You are my son."The assassin stepped away from his hand and out of his reach. He continued to stare at the Sinda, as still as a statue and as silent as the dead.Without saying a word, Legolas turned on his heel, and ran.He ran away from the Elvenking, ignoring his cries for him to stop. He ran past the oblivious elves and hobbits, who he did not pause and help up if they were knocked over by him. He ran past Glorfindel, who called out to him in a concerned voice, and even Lady Galadriel, who looked upon him with sorrowful eyes.Legolas ran, and continued running, until he was deep in the forest, surrounded by shadowed trees. Without pausing he leapt up into one oak's branches, clambering rather clumsily up the trunk and settling on a thick limb. His heart beat rapidly in his chest and he shook so badly the tree wrapped a limb around him, worried he was going to fall.The assassin leaned back against the trunk, eyes blank and unseeing as another limb gently caressed his back and shoulders. A sob escaped his lips and he brought his knees up to his chest, laying his head on them before allowing himself to cry.His tears mixed with the dried blood on his cheeks, some of the brownish-red flaking away at the water's touch. Still gasping and sobbing softly, the assassin wiped away as much of the blood as he could.He sat in the tree until long after dark, the shadowed trees murmuring softly to him and cooing as they tried to make Daelas not-sad. Daelas being sad made the trees sad, and also made them angry at the one that made Daelas sad. But Daelas would not tell them why he was sad, or who made him sad-angry-hurt.Tears spent, Legolas stared up at the stars that could be seen through the branches. He sensed the person below him and kept his anger at the elf to himself. The shadowed trees, ignorant to his emotions, gently helped the other up into the branches, settling him beside Daelas.Glorfindel did not speak to Legolas, instead watching the silent, pale young elf. Finally, the assassin spoke."How long have you known?" the violet-eyed asked flatly.The Vanya winced. "I found out while you were on the mission to assassinate Saruman. So did Frodo and Bilbo.""...I see." Legolas nodded, a shudder going through his frame."What do I do, Gwad— Glorfindel?" he asked brokenly. "I cannot be the Lost Prince! Thranduil must be mistaken!"The Balrog Slayer took a deep breath, placing his hands firmly on the younger elf's shoulders. "Firstly, I am still your brother. It does not matter that you are Legolas Thranduilion, you are still my Tithen Gwador.""But I am not Legolas Thranduilion." the assassin whispered. "I am Legolas, and Esgal, and Brian and Hoshvuras. I am an assassin, a pseudo-Ranger, and a warrior. I am not a Prince, and I am not Thranduil's son. I am— I am so glad that I have a family—" He had to pause to wipe more tears from his eyes. "—but I do not know them Glorfindel! I do not love them in the way a family member would! They are my close friends, my confidantes, and most of them hold places deep in my heart but I am not their brother or son!""I know, though I cannot say that I fully understand what you are going through." the Balrog Slayer murmured. "It is true that Thranduil kept this a secret to protect you, because he knew you would feel obligated to try to change yourself and force yourself to try to be who you once were. But you do not have to change yourself, Esgal. You do not have to change your attitude towards your siblings or father. This knowledge will weigh heavily upon you, but the time for all to know and act upon the knowledge you have gained is not now. Continue to live as you were. Do not let the truth of your past burden you. Please, Esgal, do not hurt yourself by trying to become the Lost Prince. Just remain Esgal, and Brian, and Hoshvuras."Legolas looked at him with vulnerable,terrified eyes that begged for guidance. "Is it truly all right if I stay the way I am? Thranduil isn't expecting me to become his son?""He would never expect you to become someone you cannot remember." Glorfindel said passionately. "Nor would he expect you to immediately love your siblings as brothers and sisters. I promise that you will learn to accept them as family over time, and learn to love them as your family even if you do not have your memories back."Legolas thought about this a while before nodding hesitantly.His gwador gave him a sunny smile. "Are you ready to return? There is something I have to do back at the Palace."There was another undecided pause, then the assassin nodded again.Glorfindel's smile softened to something gentler. "All right. If you are sure."Legolas followed his sworn-brother back to the Palace, mind still reeling from what he had learned. He was the Lost Prince... and yet he was not. Not in mind, anyway... but that was all right. The assassin was determined not to change himself too much, and not to try to force his memories to return until he was ready. The pain from seeing his old room was enough of a warning to keep him from attempting it foolishly.He would not change himself, but he would try to get closer to his siblings. Carefully, cautiously of course, even though he was not the brother they had lost. But he had to try. He had to attempt to accept that he was the Lost Prince... no. He could not accept that he, Legolas, an assassin, was a Prince. But he could try to be a son and brother. According to Glorfindel, that was all Thranduil wanted and was asking for. He could do it. He could.Thranduil was waiting outside of the Palace for them, relief brightening his expression as he spotted... his son. Legolas was his son. Thranduil was Legolas's father. He still could not truly believe he was the son of a King... but he could maybe believe he was the son of this concerned elf."Legolas..." The golden-haired elf greeted happily, approaching with raised arms.The assassin stayed out of arm's reach, looking uncomfortable. Thranduil's expression fell and Legolas winced."I am sorry." he apologized in a mumble. "I just... I need some time."The blue-eyed Sinda nodded eagerly. "Of course. I understand. How silly of me to hope..." To hope that you would accept me as your father immediately remained unsaid.Legolas cringed, and looked down at the floor, unable to meet the Elvenking's eyes. The growing tension between them shattered when Elrohir burst out of the Palace doors, panting heavily. All attention turned to the gasping son of Elrond, who looked up with wild, triumphant eyes."Erestor is awake!"LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: In this chapter, I had choices to make. My choices were to have Legolas be told who he was, or to let him believe Amon's lies for a while. Obviously I chose the first option, much to your joy I'm sure. Up until I posted Chapter 34, I was going to put the revelation later in the story. Then I realized that I would not have time for the characters to deal with the revelation and each other, so I knew I had to push the reveal up a lot. The reason I was going to have it so late was because I could not figure out certain plot lines and how to make certain future events happen if Legolas was aware of his identity. However, I was able to alter and shift those future events slightly and make them work, so yay!Like I said last chapter, thanks for all of the reviews for "White, Violet, and Red"! :DResponses to Guest reviews:To Guest, see180moviecom, guest 2000, and EventingRules: Thank you!To Anony-Mouse: Thank you! As you saw, it was our favorite adviser. (note the sarcasm) Next chapter he is going to get his ass kicked for what he pulled this chapter.To arcticfoxlover: Thank you! He knows! :D A lot sooner than I originally planned too...To GUEST: Thank you! And it was the "evil council man", as you called him. XDTo emi: Thank you! It was Amon. Fael is going to have to deal with a lot of angst when he finds out about Legolas. You'll find out about Erestor next chapter.To Aisha: Thank you! As you saw, he was shown before. And he will be back again.To Kryst: Thank you! You'll find out next chapter.To Raven: Thank you! You saw who it was. :)Pelease review!


********** Page 38 **********

Chapter Thirty-Seven: The Three Black WeaponsAmon, adviser to the Elvenking and unofficial Head of the Council, was triumphant. The sight of the assassin writhing and gasping in pain on the floor showed itself in his mind's eye, filling him with a deep sense of sadistic satisfaction. He had hurt the elf deeply, the memory of his agony bringing a smile to the Sinda's face, and his victory was only sweeter because no matter what happened, those who would wish to punish him could do nothing.If Legolas did not confront Thranduil about his past, then no one would know about what Amon had done. If the elfling did confront the Elvenking and the truth came out, Thranduil would be unable to do anything at all without revealing to the Council that 'Esgal' was his son. And the golden-haired Wood-elf lover would never do that, for that would force the poor assassin into the world of politics and secret agendas. He may be able to survive battles, but Legolas would not be able to survive the life of a Prince.The adviser entered his dark room, night having fallen long ago, shadows covering everything from the mirror to the bed in a dark purple-black sheen. Amon's sharp eyes were not bothered by the darkness however. In fact, he felt calmer inside of it. Less angry at the world and its injustices...Behind him, the door closed with a snap.Amon spun around, weaponless hands raising defensively, but relaxed when he spotted the one beside the door. He allowed a benign smile to form on his face as he bowed to the newcomer."Prince Barhad." he greeted. "You startled me."The golden-haired Prince nodded slightly to he adviser. "I apologize, Adviser Amon." he said softly.Amon felt a flicker of annoyance at his quiet tone. The elf was a good strategist and highly intelligent, but he never seemed to have the force that someone of his status should exude. He should not be apologizing like a servant. Barhad lacked the strength he needed. Not a warrior's kind of strength— for Amon himself was not a warrior either— but the strength to stand up and argue, to forcibly take the lead and make his opinion be known.In meetings, Barhad only spoke if prompted, content to listen and softly tell his ideas and thoughts rather than confidently drawing all attention to him. It was not until recently that Amon realized how weak the Prince was. It must be the Silvan blood within him. The adviser always knew Thranduil should not have married that Wood-Elf, he had just been content to live with his King's decision until this new Darkness came.The coming of the Darkness had been like a veil had been pulled back from in front of his eyes, and Amon had been able to see the flaws in Thranduil's leadership. Every doubt he ever had had come back to haunt him, sticking in the forefront of his mind and refusing to leave. He had come to the realization that the Elvenking was going to get them all killed, one way or another. And that made Amon angry."Is there something you need, Prince?" the Sinda asked Barhad in an appropriately respectful tone."Yes." Barhad murmured, and Amon felt another pulse of anger.Speak up, do not mumble like a nervous kitchen maid, he thought with disgust. Oropher would never have let his children portray themselves in any other way than that of a proper Royal!"There is something I must discuss with you." the golden-haired elf continued, unaware of the adviser's thoughts.An easy, welcoming smile formed on Amon's face. Fake, of course, just like the one he had used to trick that assassin. "Of course. Shall I light some candles?""That is not necessary." the brown-eyed elf said. "This should not take long."Amon waited, externally patient, internally impatient, for the weak-willed Prince to speak."What I need to tell you is simple." Barhad continued, voice not changing in tone. "You have one hour to get out of this Palace before I make you."The adviser froze, the calm, pleasant voice the Prince spoke in not matching his words. "Excuse me?""You may drop the act, Amon." the golden-haired elf said in his soft voice, not a hint of steel or warning in his tone. "I know that you attacked my brother."Amon blinked, widening his eyes in confusion and hurt. "My Prince, I would never—""Be. Silent."His voice did not become louder or softer. His tone did not change. But the adviser felt a chill go up his spine as the Prince looked at him with those too-calm, too-serene brown eyes."You attacked Esgal." Barhad said as if he were discussing the weather. "Esgal is Legolas, my brother, which you were aware of when you purposely took him to his old room and allowed him to see it hurting him so badly his eyes bled."Again, his tone remained neutral but fire lit in his eyes, something dangerous burning in their depths.Amon forced a chuckle, pleased as it came out as unconcerned as he wanted it to. "Prince Barhad, I believe you are mistaken. It is impossible that Esgal is—""Do not lie." Barhad told him with the voice of a mouse and the eyes of an enraged dragon. "I knew who Esgal was from the moment Adar returned after being captured. I kept it secret because I knew that people like you would try to harm my brother. Secrecy and silence, even with one's own family, are sometimes the best weapons. After all, I am the last person you or anyone expected to confront you, correct?""I—""Silence." Barhad stated without venom.Amon clamped his mouth shut. The Prince, without shouting or icy, cold rage, was terrifying him more with his benign, calm anger than any wrath the adviser may have faced from Thranduil. Barhad stepped forward, not getting in the Sinda's face but making him desperately wish to back away. His eyes locked with the adviser's green ones."You hurt my little brother. That is unforgivable. The only reason I have not brought Glorfindel here and let him do what he wished to you is because I know that none of this is your fault."Amon felt confusion rise within him before anger again took hold. Unknown to the adviser, his pupils rippled and grew, stretching out into his sclera for an instant before retreating back to normal. The Prince watched the change without flinching, intelligent gaze surveying the occurrence without showing a sign that he did.Barhad's eyes saddened. "I suspected this might happen. Ever since your attitude changed so drastically, I knew that this was a possibility but I had hoped it would not be true..."Then he blinked and the grief was gone, replaced by that calm, fiery glint once more. "I am giving you a chance Amon. Leave now, or you will be punished for what you have done, whether it was truly your fault or not.""And how would I be punished?" Amon challenged. "You cannot reveal what I have done without revealing that Esgal is the Lost Prince."There was no change in Barhad's blank expression. "That would be true, if I or anyone close to Legolas cared about legality. You are an enemy, Amon. You may not think it, the others may not know it, but I do, and as Prince that gives me the right to tell no one and do as I see fit.""You have one hour to leave the Palace, get out of Mirkwood, and never return." the Prince informed him as calmly as he would tell the adviser the next time for a Council meeting. "Otherwise I will kill you and dump your body in the river, weighed down with stones so no one will ever find it.""Are you threatening me?" Amon hissed.The golden-haired Royal did not even blink. "No. I am not threatening you. I am making you a promise." The fire in his eyes darkened to murderous shadows, and for a moment Amon could see the relation between the Prince and his assassin brother. "You spilled my brother's blood, so I have every right to spill yours for you are no longer my kin. And remember, I may not be a warrior, Amon, but I am more trained than you."The adviser's eyes flicked to Barhad's side, noticing the sword strapped at his hip for the first time. He swallowed."You are lucky that I am giving you a chance to live in exile rather than killing you for harming my family, as is my right." the Prince said almost politely, without malice. "No one can get away with hurting my little brother, not even you. One hour."With that the Prince walked out of the door without looking back.Amon stood silently in his room, anger and fear warring for dominance within him. His eyes flickered, black extending out of his pupils and into his sclera, turning them black before retreating.Radagast had been wrong. The elves within Mirkwood had not been immune to the Darkness's reach and the transformation into Shadowed Elves. The Darkness had just been dormant inside of them until Iãgaw woke. However, with the Chant, all Darkness had been forced out Mirkwood. Even the Darkness that had resided unknowingly inside of those that would have been Shadowed long ago, only the Sanctuary's dormant magic keeping them from showing the signs and auras of the Shadowed Elves.The Chant had forced the Darkness out of the elves, but not fixed the havoc and instability of their minds caused by the Darkness being inside them, sleeping, for decades. Now, instead of slaves and extensions of the Void, these elves were merely unstable in mind and soul but retaining old pieces of themselves and their fears among the anger and rage they were lost to.These elves were not Shadowed. They were merely Fallen.And so, unlike those unlucky enough to be outside of the Sanctuary when the Void awoke, the adviser had managed to keep his feeling of independence and self-preservation.Turning to his dresser, Amon collected his things and left.No one would notice he was gone until morning.LOTRLOTRLOTRWhen Legolas entered the Halls of Healing, it seemed like everyone was gathered around Erestor's bed. Elrond, Galadriel, Celeborn, Aragorn, the twins, his siblings— How odd it was to think that they were his family!— Gandalf— When had he arrived?— Radagast, Haldir, some hobbits— the assassin only recognized Bilbo and Frodo— and other figures of importance were there. Barhad slid into the room after Thranduil, standing quietly at the back and being the last to arrive.Erestor was sitting up in bed, pale faced but smiling tiredly as Elrond, the twins, and Aragorn fussed over him. Next to Legolas, Glorfindel made his way unceremoniously through the crowd and to his friend. The scholar noticed the Balrog Slayer's expression and chuckled, the sound raspy."There is no need to lecture me, mellon nin. I have already been berated for 'worrying, and terrifying' you and have promised to try to not do such a thing again.""You had better not." Glorfindel told him sternly, voice trembling slightly, before giving his friend a pat on the shoulder which quickly became a bear hug.Everyone around him shifted awkwardly, looking away from the private interaction between the two old friends. Legolas smiled slightly, glad that Glorfindel would no longer have to worry about Erestor's well-being, and noticed Thranduil looking at him. The assassin dropped his gaze to the floor. If only all reunions could be so easy.Radagast cleared his throat. "We are all glad you are awake, Erestor. You said that there is something you need to tell all of us?"The scholar nodded, and drew himself up, looking pale but determined. "I suppose the best way to discuss this is with the blunt approach," he began. "I called all of you here... because I know how Iãgaw can be defeated."There was a heartbeat of silence before the room exploded into pandemonium, all shouting questions at the adviser, and each other. Legolas struggled to keep track of who was trying to say what when Glorfindel gave a sharp shout of "Quiet!" and the room fell silence once more."I am sure Erestor will answer your questions if you let him," the Balrog Slayer chided benignly, making a few people— mostly the hobbits— blush.Everyone looked back at the scholar. His eyes scanned them all, waiting to see if there would be any more outbursts, and he began to speak."As many of you know, cryptic warnings were given to the bearers of the Three Rings. 'He is awake' was the warning given to Galadriel by Haldir. 'He is coming.' was the warning given to Gandalf by Fael. And 'He has come' was the warning given to Elrond by myself. However, it was not us that were speaking those words, but the Vala Lorien speaking through us. The warnings, vague and cryptic though they were, were an attempt made by Lorien to warn us all that Sauron was not the Great Darkness we would be facing in the future and that Iãgaw would use the Three Rings to see into the Elven Realms.""The reason Lorien did not tell us it was Iãgaw was in case he did not come, for as you know his escape relied on him getting the Ring of Power. By the time the 'He has come' warning came, it was too late. To you all, I gave the warning and fell into a coma-like state. However, that is not the case. Lorien used the connection he had established with me to pull me into a... vision, I suppose the term would be. Although it was not truly a 'vision', it was a lesson, with Lorien telling me everything I needed to know about how to defeat the Void.""Long ago, before the end of the First Age, Lorien first received the vision of Iãgaw, and convinced his fellow Vala to help increase the powers that keep the demon imprisoned, although at that time there seemed to be no need. The only thing that could summon the Void to this world was a complex array and spell, along with a sizable 'piece of a Dark Lord's soul, forged in the flames of Doom and despair'. It was not until the Second Age that Lorien realized what that had meant: The One Ring, forged in the fires of Mount Doom, containing much of Sauron's malice, will, Darkness, soul, and power.""The Ring, along with the array and spell only Iãgaw knew, were what was required to release the demon, and Lorien realized that the Void becoming free was not as farfetched as he once thought. But along with visions of death and destruction, he received another vision that foretold how Iãgaw could be defeated. A powerful trinket forged in the fires of Doom was required to release the Void, and Three Weapons forged in those same flames could destroy him.""'When Darkness rules and hope is lost, the Wielders Three will rise. One of mountains, one of the Kings, and one of the star-filled skies. On mountain's peak, in secrecy, the Black Weapons they'll find.In the place where the Darkness rules, and Blue is not kind.With blades of Black the Three must strike the heart of Arda's end.But beware, for They are Dark, and slay both foes and friends.'""That was the Prophecy Lorien passed onto me. Three Black Weapons, forged in the fires of Mount Doom, are what can slay the Void, as foreseen by the Vala after Sauron created the Ring. And so Lorien sent four elven blacksmiths there, where they forged the Black Weapons of the Prophecy. The Black Axe, Dūrcuil, the Black Sword, Mornestel, and the Black Bow and Arrows, Daesīdh, were successfully created in the darkest flames in this world. However, not without a price.""Because of the Darkness they were forged in, the Weapons themselves hold Darkness. They are neutral at best, Shadowed at worst, and are loyal to only one, maybe Three people: Their Wielder, and the Wielders of their kin. The Weapons are not sentient, but they are aware. They know who is meant to Wield them, and they will not allow anyone else to use them in battle. The Weapons can kill anything, living or dead, weak or invincible. A single strike, anywhere on the body, will cause someone to die, either eventually or instantaneously. There is no cure, and no escape.""The Weapons are aware of this, and do not believe anyone is worthy of Wielding them other than their Wielders, so they kill any who dare to wield them that are not their Chosen. A single swing of one of the Three will result in it putting a Dark curse upon you. Your life will slowly and agonizingly wither away from a Dark sickness. You will become physically weak and ill, your life draining away as your soul itself fades from existence. No magic can heal you, and not even the most powerful healer can save you.""Only the Chosen Wielder giving permission for someone to use their Weapon will save them from a terrible fate. The only exception to this is other Wielders. Although a Weapon will not be pleased if a Wielder that is not theirs uses them, it will not harm its kin's Wielder. Other than that, you will die for using a Black Weapon that was not yours to be used.""All four elves died soon after delivering the Weapons to Lorien. At one point or another they used the Weapons, and they, angry at their creators, cursed them. The first died within three days of using a Weapon, the last passed on in a month. The Weapons are meant to fight for the Light, but they are Shadowed beings, much like the shadowed trees were. They do not care who they hurt as long as they protect their Chosen Three.""As stated in the Prophecy, each Weapon must strike Iãgaw's heart once each for the demon to be killed. The Wielders must be the ones to do this, each with their own Weapon. This means that if a Weapon is destroyed before it can be used to kill Iãgaw, or a Wielder dies before he uses his Weapon to stab the Void's heart, then there is no hope. The Weapons are the only way that Iãgaw can be killed. There is no other, for even the Vala cannot destroy the Void, and the secrets in forging the Weapons have been lost. They cannot be reforged.""Then finding the Wielders and making sure they stay alive is another priority along with finding these Weapons." Gandalf said, speaking for the first time. "Did Lorien tell you who the Wielders are, or where the Weapons are hidden?""He did not reveal the Wielder's identities, for even he does not know." Erestor revealed. "For their protection, they have remained unknown to all, because if Iãgaw ever learned who they were before they received their Weapon, he would be able to easily kill them, thus dooming the world. However, Lorien did reveal where the Weapons are hidden to me..."The Scholar hesitated a moment before speaking. "They are hidden in a place greatly influenced and ruled by Darkness, one where Iãgaw would not even think to look since the Free Realms are the focus of his attention...""They are in Rhûn."His words got mixed reactions. Aragorn, Galadriel and the Elf Lords looked thoughtful, the Royal children looked stunned, and a few of the Councilors looked alarmed."The Weapons are in the Dark Lands?" one asked. "With the Easterlings?"Legolas scowled at his tone, but Thranduil spoke first."Just because the Easterlings live somewhere Dark does not make all of them are evil." the Elvenking said vehemently.Erestor ignored that little exchange. "Yes, they are in the Dark Lands, in a Temple that is hidden in a mountain range far east of the Iron Hills. Iãgaw has no interest in Rhûn as of yet. He wishes to destroy the Free Realms first, and only cares about the Dark Lands for the bad men he has gotten from there for his armies.""Do some of the Easterlings protect the Temple and the Weapons?" a particularly young hobbit with reddish-brown hair piped up curiously."Most likely." the scholar said, ignoring a Councilor's disbelieving huff. "The Temple is protected by old magic, similar but far different than the powers that protect this Sanctuary.""Hold on a moment." Bilbo said, biting his unlit pipe. "You said that the Weapons kill anyone who wields them and is not a Wielder. But Bard the Bowman used a Black Arrow to kill Smaug years ago."Everyone stared at him.Then Erestor gasped. "Of course! I recall that now! I had always wondered how an arrow had managed to slay a dragon. The missing scale in Smaug's armor was a lie. A normal arrow would not have killed the fire-drake.""So how did Bard not become ill and cursed if he was not a Wielder?" Aragorn asked. His eyes widened. "You do not think that he was Daesīdh's Wielder, was he?"The people in the room looked at each other in horror at the thought. If Bard was the Wielder, that meant Daesīdh's Wielder was already dead...Legolas recalled something and spoke up. "But Bard was affected. He looked terrible when I saw him before the Battle of the Five Armies."All eyes turned to him, and the young elf cringed, subconsciously moving closer to Thranduil, who stood next to him. The assassin quickly realized what he had done and winced, but did not step away from his father, who had to be positively beaming inside."Please explain what happened, Esgal." Galadriel asked him gently, blue eyes kind.Legolas decided to focus on her rather than all of the people— so many people— staring at him. "I ran into Bard during the siege of Erebor. He was sickly and weak, and kept mumbling about how he should not have used 'It'. 'It' turned out to be the Black Arrow he had acquired, and he kept telling me that he should not have used it to slay Smaug and that he was paying the price. I..." The assassin hesitated. "I... told him that it was all right, and that it was good that he used the Arrow to kill the dragon. And he... got better. Color returned to his face and he could stand on his own, as if my words had returned his strength..." The young elf trailed off as the stares became more intense from the older listeners."Well." Glorfindel said, and though his voice was mostly calm it held an undercurrent of terror. "That answers one question."Legolas had a sinking feeling in his gut, even though his mind blatantly refused to put the pieces dangling in front of his face together. Beside the young elf, his father turned a stark shade of white."What are you talking about?" the young hobbit who had spoken earlier asked."We know who the Wielder of Daesīdh is," Celeborn explained to the hobbit in his patient, serene voice. "Esgal saved Bard's life by telling him it was 'good' that he used the Black Arrow. In a way, the Arrow took this as permission for the man who had wielded it to use it, and healed the Bowman.""But Erestor said that only a Wielder could give permission... Oh." The hobbit's eyes widened with understanding.Everyone stared at Legolas, who wished he had the power to sink into the ground. What is this, tell Legolas he's special day? The assassin thought almost hysterically. First I found out I am a Prince in blood, the son of a King, and now I am one of Three people destined to save the world. "Guess what Legolas, you're the Lost Prince! Eventually everyone will have to know but its a secret now so don't worry!" "Guess what Legolas, you're the Wielder of a Black Weapon! If you die, the world is doomed. Isn't that wonderful? No pressure or anything" ...Why can't I just be a random, normal assassin from the forest who doesn't have to worry about forgotten family or the fate of the world?Some of his panic must have shown on his face because next thing he knew both Thranduil and Glorfindel were holding him, arms around his shoulders."It's going to be all right, Esgal." the Elvenking said softly, the Balrog Slayer nodding in agreement. "You are not alone, and you do not have to face Iãgaw yet."Oh, that's right. I and two others have to slay an otherwise invincible demon that can drain the life from everything around him....I think I am going to be ill."I do not understand." Aragorn said, thankfully drawing attention away from the pale assassin. "How are the Wielders of the Sword and the Axe supposed to kill Iãgaw if he can kill them with his energy-draining powers?""The Weapons neutralize Iãgaw's energy-draining abilities completely when they are close enough to the Void." Erestor explained, bringing some relief to Legolas.Good. That lessened the difficulty of the kill since he would not have to worry about his energy being sucked out of his body..."Completely?" Elrohir asked, just to make sure. "So he cannot use that power at all? That can save so many lives!""Yes." the scholar agreed. "However, he still has his other powers. Shadow manipulation, teleportation, and so on."...But of course the demon would have his other powers still. Legolas frowned, already considering how to avoid injury while trying to shoot the Void. It depended. Could he hide his aura from Iãgaw? Actually, could the demon sense the Wielders. The power 'shadow manipulation', sounded highly dangerous— which was still an understatement— and the Wielders would most likely be doomed if the Void sensed them coming."Can the Void sense auras?" the assassin asked hesitantly. All eyes returned to him. Focus on Erestor. Just Erestor. A lot of people are not staring at you..."I believe that he can, but the Weapons will shield the Wielders much like you can shield yourself on your own." the scholar said. "However, I do not know whether that type of shield extends like the Weapons' ability to neutralize the life-draining threat.""After a Weapon is used to kill Iãgaw, can we leave it in a city to protect its people from Iãgaw's draining powers?" Aglar asked.Legolas looked at the Crown Prince— His brother. Aglar was his brother.— with everyone else, then to Erestor as the scholar regretfully shook his head."Once the Weapons find their Wielders, they will only protect others when their Wielders are holding their Weapon, or if the Weapons are on their person.""The Weapons truly do not care about anyone other then their Wielder and their kins' Chosen." Thranduil murmured, eyes far away. "Everyone else can die. They only care for their Chosen."Erestor nodded solemnly. "Like I said, the Weapons are neutral at best, and— like the One Ring— are only completely loyal to one person. That loyalty extends to their kin and their kins' Chosen, but that is all. They will abandon and betray all others."Glorfindel suddenly gave a harsh laugh, devoid of mirth. "It is almost ironic." the Vanya said. "If things had happened like the Valar first thought, we would most likely be trying to destroy the One Ring, which was forged in Mount Doom and was loyal only to Sauron. Now, we are trying to find and preserve the Three Black Weapons, also forged in that volcano, and loyal only to the Wielders...""Yes." Galadriel said softly, but all heard her and listened. "Light, armies, and the power of will are not enough to defeat the Void. A bit of Shadow, and a touch of volatile Darkness are what is needed now." Her blue eyes settled on Legolas, and she smiled sadly. "I see why you, out of all elves, were the chosen 'one of star-filled skies'. No High Elf could go near Daesīdh without suffering, and even a lesser Light-elf would be unable to Wield the Bow and Arrows without feeling a chill within their hearts."She waited until the others had begun speaking to each other again before leaning forward and speaking into the assassin's ear, her words for only him. "You are unique, Esgal, your strength in soul in mind much greater than you know. Daesīdh has chosen you for a reason, and not because of your past. Do not be afraid."Legolas could only nod stiffly."How will we find the other Wielders?" Elladan was asking. "And when are we going to retrieve the Black Weapons?"Erestor leaned back on the bed, tiredness etched into his features. "I am afraid that I must lead you to the Temple, for only I know where it is, along with how to safely reach it." The scholar looked slightly nervous about going on such a quest but also determined to do what he had to. "To tell others would be too dangerous, for the more people who know lets there be more of a risk that someone will tell the Enemy of our plan. Mirkwood may be unable to be revealed and told to the Void, but the Black Weapons and their specific location have no such safeguards.""I have already sent missives to Erebor, Rohan, and Gondor." Elrond said. "They will each send representatives here. By the time they arrive, you, Erestor, will be strong enough to go on the journey a select few of us must." The Elf Lord rose his eyebrows at the scholar. "And do not try to tell me that you are fine. You are exhausted and weakened after your 'visions'. Speaking of which..." The Lord's gaze turned to the murmuring people around Erestor's bed. "No more questions. All of you, out! Now."The hobbits twitched and fled, while the elves and Aragorn retreated with more reserved— but still-rushed— grace. All knew better than to argue with Elrond, and even the Lord and Lady were quick to leave the room— though Galadriel was smiling as if she were amused. Elrond firmly shut the door behind them, not seeming to care that he had kicked out a few of Mirkwood's healers as well. Most did not seem to mind, Nestor quietly discussing with a few others that they needed to get Erestor a private room.Candles lit the hallways, and Legolas frowned as he realized how late it was. No one seemed to want to go to sleep, however, all gathering in the hall in small groups as they spoke about what they had learned. Some glanced at the assassin, their expressions varying. Some were concerned— Aragorn, Glorfindel, Elrohir, and Aglar— others were judging— the Council, of course— and still others were curious. The young reddish-haired hobbit walked up to the violet-eyed elf, looking up at him."Hello." he said brightly. "You must be Esgal! Frodo told Sam, Merry, and I about his elven friend. Is it true you are an assassin?" His wide green eyes were too awed for the elf's liking."Yes, I am an assassin." Legolas said. And Legolas, son of Thranduil. And the Wielder of Daesīdh apparently. The assassin resisted the urge to groan or sigh. My list of titles just keeps growing... Stop that, he chided himself.There is no need to lament and groan about this. Yes, the fact that I am a Wielder means that a third of the power needed to save the world is in my hands, but this also means that I canhelp defend this world. I can do something against the Void, and help killhim. I have to accept this and move on... so I can focus on trying to accept that I am a Prince. The assassin internally grimaced. Is it terrible that I can more easily believe I am a Wielder than I can believe I am the son of a King?The assassin glanced at Thranduil, who was at his shoulder, not too close but close enough. He felt a flare of guilt. He is so patient and kind to not push me into acceptance... Maybe I should go speak with him. But what do I say? Should I ask about my family? Should I call him "Adar"? No. Don't think about that now. Focus, Legolas."I'm Pippin." the hobbit introduced himself belatedly. "Were you the one to save Bilbo and kill that Black Rider and the Witch-King?""Yes..." Legolas said slowly, not understanding where the hobbit— Pippin— was going with this conversation.Pippin nodded, head slightly tipped and face solemn. Then he smiled happily. "Good. You will definitely be able to kill Void with Daesīdh, so that is one strike we will not have to worry about! You'll be able to hit Iãgaw easily, like you did with that Ringwraith."The assassin stared at him, startled by his belief. The green-eyed hobbit's eyes were open and genuine, his belief in the elf's ability to help kill a demon absolute. Legolas felt some of his own doubts fade at the unwavering and simple optimism Pippin exuded. Without even being aware of the elf's inner turmoil, the reddish-haired halfling put him at ease. Another hobbit called for the younger— Perhaps it was 'Merry'?— and Pippin glanced over his shoulder guiltily before turning back and smiling at Legolas."It was nice to meet you, Esgal." he said and dashed off, joining his friends.The violet-eyed elf watched the group of chattering halflings leave the hall, refusing to let their worries and fears bring them down. Legolas took advantage of most watching the hobbits depart, leaving out of the side hall in order to go process things alone. However, he allowed himself a small, secret smile.Hobbits truly are genuine, wonderful people.LOTRLOTRLOTRA/N: I wrote most of this chapter while sick and miserable. I am still sick and miserable. I am posting and going back to bed. At least I got the chapter done. (I don't know how much sense it makes though...)To explain a little better: "Fallen Elves" are elves that would have become Shadowed Elves if they had not lived in Mirkwood. The Darkness that made elves Shadowed was inside them, but it was dormant and unable to wake because of the "sleeping" magic of the Sanctuary. However, when Iãgaw was freed, the Shadowed Elf (for the sake of clarity, let's call it "disease") disease activated for a second, before the Darkness was forcibly pushed out by the Chant. However, the damage had already been done, the split second the disease was active affecting the elves' mentality. The Darkness may be gone, but the savagery, anger, and slight insanity of the Shadowed Elf "disease" remains inside, slowly coming out... Thanks to everyone who reviewed. I am so sorry for not responding to Guest reviews again. I really should respond cause you're all awesome but I have a huge headache. Ugh...Please review!Good night. Or day. Whatever.


********** Page 39 **********

Chapter Thirty-Eight: HesitationThranduil was searching for his youngest son. Although he was not sure if he should be. The elf had looked uncomfortable and a little more than terrified during Erestor's revelation about the Black Weapons, and he had vanished soon after Elrond had banished everyone from the scholar's room. The Elvenking did not know for certain whether Legolas wanted to get away from the eyes that kept staring at him... or if the assassin was avoiding his father.The Sinda's heart ached at the thought, but he told himself he had to be patient. He had to give his son time to adjust and accept what he had learned. Thranduil had dropped the information on Legolas out of nowhere, though the elf could not say he regretted it. A weight had been lifted off of his shoulders, but another one had taken its place. Legolas seemed to have taken the news well, but the Elvenking had not actually spoken to him yet other than their short and awkward exchange when the young elf returned to the Palace.Does he hate me? Thranduil thought, and a cold bolt of fear rushed through him. Is that why he is avoiding me?The Elvenking turned down another hall, finding himself in the Royal wing. He hesitated at the hall's end, wondering what had led him here. Legolas would never come here. This was the last place the assassin would go for solitude.Unless...Thranduil walked to the end of the hall, through his wife's old sewing room and into her garden. There, sitting in the tree planted at the garden's center, was his youngest son. The golden-haired elf felt relief wash through him but carefully hid it from the perceptive young elf."There you are!" he greeted.Legolas looked down at him and shifted his weight, dropping from the tree's limbs and landing lightly on the ground. Thranduil felt a moment of panic, thinking the assassin was going to run off, but relaxed again when his son only sat on the bench beneath the tree.The Sinda was glad he had taken the portrait of Luineth from the garden, instead putting it in his own chambers so Legolas would not see it again. He did not know how the amnesiac elf would react if he saw something that had caused him pain the first time he had set eyes on it.Thranduil guessed that anything that the assassin had been exposed to before he had become aware that his memories were behind his shield did not cause a reaction but, anything new that Legolas had known in his old life now did because he was subconsciously trying to retrieve the memory that went with the thing he saw. Either way, the Elvenking was determined to prevent as many pain-filled episodes as he could, so the portrait was out of the assassin's potential sight. The blue-eyed elf was sure his late wife would not mind.Legolas was looking around the garden, avoiding looking at his father for a few minutes. When he saw Thranduil watching him, he dropped his gaze to his hands. The Sinda winced, wondering how long it would take before his son looked him in the face again.That being said, it surprised him greatly when Legolas spoke."So... this was the Queen's garden?" the assassin asked softly. "The Queen my... my mother?"The questioning tone in his voice, added to the fact that he had called Luineth the distant term 'mother' in Westron rather than an affectionate 'Nana' or 'Naneth' made Thranduil internally cringe. He took in a shaky breath and sat beside his son, feeling slightly more confident when the young elf did not retreat.Be patient, he reminded himself. Legolas has to take in and believe a lot, with no memories to aid him. Give him time. "Yes, this was your mother's garden." the Elvenking answered simply."And Fael, Aglar, Barhad, Berneth, Hannel, and Megilag are my siblings..." the assassin murmured as if he needed to remind himself of this. His eyes widened in horror. "Megilag, Fael, and Bereneth are out searching for me, but I am here—!""I am afraid there is nothing we can do for them." Thranduil said despite how much it pained him to speak the words. "Any pursuers would be noticed by Iãgaw, I cannot send any more of your siblings out of Mirkwood and risk losing them as well, and you cannot go because you are needed to go find the Weapons once that quest begins."The answer only came so easily to the Elvenking because he had spent nights staring at the ceiling fretting about his three absent children. The terrible truth was that trying to retrieve them would only put them in more danger. He could only trust them to have the skills needed to stay alive.Legolas seemed to see the unhappy truth in the matter, and reluctantly nodded.Silence stretched between them, and Thranduil forced himself not to break it. He focused on the beautiful rainbow of flowers around them rather than the tension in the air. He really needed to convince Legolas to come here during the day, when the flowers were in full bloom beneath the sun."I am sorry."The apology came out of nowhere and the Sinda looked up to see Legolas looking to the right, noticeably away from him as if he were ashamed."Why are you apologizing?" the Elvenking asked gently.The assassin was stiff and still, but his voice betrayed that he was deeply upset. "I... I just do not know what to do. Or what to say or ask... You must have been eagerly awaiting a happy reunion with your son, but instead you have one that does not even know who he is.""Oh, Legolas..." Thranduil whispered, gently cupping the violet-eyed elf's chin with his hand and making him look at him. "Knowing that you are safe and well is enough for me. If I expected you to accept me immediately and be the Lost Prince, I would have told you your identity the moment I myself discovered it. I would have tried to change you by telling you how to act and how you acted in the past. But you are not the elfling I lost, Legolas, and I do not expect you to be him, a Prince, or even acknowledge me as your father. The first may never happen again, and I do not want the second and third to happen until you are ready. Do not try to force yourself into this for my sake."The assassin did not agree to or deny his words, merely shrugging mutely. Thranduil knew he was still feeling guilty for being unable to do the impossible and give the Sinda his son back. He decided a slight change of subject was best for now."I have noticed that you've been staying in the Palace a lot more than you normally would." the Elvenking said. "I hope you do not feel as if you need to stay here."Legolas blinked, looking him fully in the face. "I do not have to? Before, I stayed because of the chaos after Iãgaw's rise. Now... I thought you would want me to stay here."Thranduil kept a grimace off of his face. How do I say this correctly? Yes, I want you to stay here to keep you in sight, but I also do not want you to feel like you have to stay here, again for me. I want you to keep your freedom, I want you to be safe, I want you to know that you have a home here, but that you can come to it without restriction and without being trapped here..."Legolas, please answer me honestly." the Elvenking said, preparing himself as best he could for any emotional backlash the answer he would receive might cause. "Do you want to stay in the Palace? Do you like it here?"The assassin's mouth moved wordlessly for a period, and his gaze dropped back to the ground. "No." he whispered. "I do not like to stay here for extended periods of time. It is not because of you, it is because of others and... and the stone around me. I like to sleep beneath the trees and stars."Thranduil refused to let himself be hurt by this statement."...Sometimes the caverns remind me of Dol Guldur."That resolve was quickly shattered.Every time the Sinda thought he was done being slapped across the face by new, terrible information about his son, a new revelation came forth, leaving only great emotional turmoil for the Elvenking."Oh." was the only response he could give, in a faint voice that did not sound like his at all."I am so sorry." Legolas apologized, looking up with saddened-eyes. "I just keep hurting you."Thranduil made himself calm, made himself breathe. "No. This is all right." he said, voice gaining strength and firmness. "I am glad you are telling me things like this." I need to know the truth so that I am not hurting you.He could do this. He was the Elvenking, a strategist, a diplomat, and— most importantly— a parent, so he could figure out a way to keep his son happy and free while keeping himself from frantically worrying about him. He could figure out a way to let Legolas go, but keep him close enough so that he would not risk losing him again."You do not have to stay here." Thranduil said, letting no doubt or uncertainty enter his tone. "The Palace will always be open to you, but you do not have to stay within it if you do not wish it. If you want to leave, you may leave when you want, like you have always done. All I ask is that you come back." Just so I can see that you are all right."I will try to come back every few days." Legolas promised, eyes brightening with relief.The returning joy and life in those eyes lifted a few weights from Thranduil's heart, and he felt himself smiling. "Good." The grin slowly faded. "What did you mean that you do not like to stay 'because of others'?"The joy vanished and the golden-haired elf cursed himself for causing it to fade. But he had to know..."I do not like crowds. Or society. Or particular people within your Halls." Legolas admitted haltingly. "I am unused to being around many others, and the Halls have been particularly full as of late."Of course. It made perfect sense now. He had known this, after all. "We are all trying to adjust to the changes." The Elvenking replied surprisingly easily. "The Council— who are actually doing the job they are meant to— is considering building settlements out in the forest for refugees we may receive. It will take a few weeks but the hobbits at least will have a similar settlement to what they had in Imladris."The assassin nodded. "Things have been very... tense here. Less with the hobbits, more with the elves. I witnessed a fight between three Galadrim and three Mirkwood Warriors out on the grounds, before my mission."Thranduil frowned. He had heard about the encounter distantly through a few Captains, but had not known that Legolas had been involved. "What happened?""The Galadrim were insulting you, the Mirkwood Warriors insulted Galadriel, and it escalated into a fistfight from there." the violet-eyed elf told him. "I broke it up."The words were a lot more alarming then they should be, though at first Thranduil could not think of why. "How exactly did you do that?"Legolas shrugged. "I paralyzed them using pressure points."The Elvenking's mind went blank. Thought returned, and he spoke slowly in a stunned voice. 'You what?"The assassin gave him an odd look. "I temporarily paralyzed them. They are fine. There was no lasting damage.""That's not—" Thranduil struggled to form the words. "Legolas, you cannot paralyze people and leave them outside!"The young elf's head tipped and he looked at Thranduil quizzically. "Why not?"That made the Elvenking pause. Once again, he was an ignorant fool. His son was an assassin. He had grown up among orcs who killed each other for the slightest insult. His son had managed to learn about morality and general social niceties, but other things— like the fact that temporarily paralyzing people was not the proper way to deal with upset, angry brawlers— had never been taught to him. How did Thanduil explain to his son that he should have been gentler when— by the standards he had grown up in— the assassin had been gentle?"That is not how one would usually deal with a situation like that." The Elvenking tried to explain. "They were acting out on their anger. They just lost their home and their emotions were running high. That is why they were fighting.""I know." Legolas said. "But one must never let their emotions cause them to attack an ally with the intent to harm. Ever. If Ciaran or I had ever allowed emotions to control us enough for us to attack each other, one of us would have murdered the other."The thought sent a chill up Thranduil's spine. Though now that he thought about it, Legolas had never lashed out at someone in anger. He had always maintained a stiff control over himself. Even when he had been confronting the Elvenking about the secrets being kept from him, while holding the knives that the Sinda had given him, he had not threatened Thranduil with them, or even advanced menacingly. He had only been angry with his voice and words, not his movements. For the assassin, reacting with physical violence would mean death for the person on the receiving end."Yes. That may have been true for you," he said in a strained voice. "But at most the warriors would have given each other bruises. When the situation is not deadly for anyone, we try to stop the fighting peacefully, by talking to them.""But I was alone and there was six of them." Legolas pointed out. "Besides, I doubt they would have listened to anything I would have said. And I still do not understand how they could let their emotions control them so greatly that they attacked those that are their friends."Deciding that the route he was taking would not help him explain the finer points of proper action to his son, Thranduil tried a different tactic. "Emotions are not always so easily controllable. How would you feel if I died?" All right, not his best example at the moment, but he had to use it now.Legolas's eyes darkened— Not literally, thank the Valar— and his fists clenched. "No." he stated. "You would never die before me."Although he did not answer the question, Thranduil had one of his own. "How are you so sure?" he asked with a frown."Because the only way you would die is through a fatal blow." the assassin told him, most likely believing his father would refusal to fade. He had refused to, in the past. "And I would be sure to take that blow for you."He spoke as if that answer was the obvious one, and Thranduil felt icy claws grip his heart."No. No. That is not the point, Legolas." He sounded as if he was being strangled, even to his own ears.Confusion crossed the young elf's features, along with despair. "I've upset you again. I'm—""Do not apologize." the Elvenking said swiftly. "But, Legolas, why would you take a killing blow for me?" How can you say that so casually?"It isn't just because you are a King." the assassin explained, misunderstanding. "It is also because I care about you and... and love you. You are my... father. I would die for you."I cannot believe I am having this conversation with my son, Thranduil thought, too upset to be happy that the elf called him father. Father, distantly in Westron, but still... How did our conversation even come to this?"It is a father's duty to protect his children, not the other way around." he said, voice shaking.Legolas flinched, but still responded to his father's words. "But all of your warriors and guards are ready to give their lives to save yours. How can I not be willing as well?""That— That's not—"By trying to explain something new to his son, Thranduil had instead unveiled a new jar of worms he had to deal with. But how in the name of the Valar was he supposed to explain to Legolas that he was not expected to give his life to save the Elvenking's because he was Thranduil's son Valar curse it and that was the only reason! Legolas was not supposed to even consider throwing himself between his father and a blade, purposely sacrificing himself for the golden-haired elf. The mere thought of it made the Sinda's stomach churn.He could not explain this as something Legolas should instinctively know. He had to link it to the assassin and explain it in a way he could understand.Please, Valar, Thranduil silently prayed before speaking. Let me get through to him without failure this time. Please..."Legolas, how would you feel if Glorfindel died for you?"The young elf seemed to withdraw, shaking his head rapidly in denial. "No. No. No one will ever die for me. I would die for him though.""But if he did die for you, how would you feel?" Thranduil pressed. "You would be upset, you would feel guilty—""I know perfectly well how I would feel!" Legolas exploded, eyes blazing with anger and loss. "Ciaran died taking an arrow for me!"The Elvenking's mouth snapped shut. He stared at his son, unable to bring words of any kind to his lips. The assassin looked at him with a blank and hard expression."Ciaran gave his life to save mine. How can I be expected to do anything less for the ones I care about. I would gladly give my life if I knew that doing so would save the people I love." Legolas said firmly. His expression softened, filled with a determination that only made Thranduil's heart sink further. "If throwing myself in front of you and taking the arrow meant to kill you saved your life, I would do it without hesitation. I do not fear death."He stood, and made as if to bow, but stopped himself. "I will return to the Palace in a few days. I am sorry for hurting you so much... Adar."He vanished, out the door before Thranduil could react. With a curse the Elvenking leapt to his feet, running out of the garden and into the hall. His son was nowhere in sight, and the blue-eyed elf could only stand and stare at the empty hall, filled with turmoil.Legolas's upbringing and morals are more complex than I knew...He called me 'Adar'! I should not have pushed him. I should have tried to speak about his mother instead of asking to be let into the workings of his mind and thoughts...He called me 'Adar'!His joy and grief mixed terribly within him and Thranduil let himself lean against the wall and slide down to the floor. His son— his wonderful, complex, mysterious, joyful, broken son— could lift and burden his heart more greatly than anyone else. But if the things worth striving for were meant to be reached easily, then there would be no unhappiness in this world, and all would be following their dreams.I must not push him again. Thranduil told himself firmly. I have to let him remain free, and let him be the one to reach out and forge the bond of family and trust between us. Oh Luineth, it feels as if I am a new parent once again, dealing with all the troubles, joys, and woes having a child brings..."Thranduil?"The Sinda looked up, to see Glorfindel standing in front of him. The Vanya's eyes were lit with compassion and understanding."He is gone, isn't he?""Yes." Thranduil whispered. "I have chased him away.""For a few days, yes." the Balrog Slayer agreed. "But he will return, ready to face you again. Although I am surprised he fled and left you in such a state. What did you say?""I pushed him enough for him to mention Ciaran died taking an arrow for him." Thranduil said.Glorfindel winced. "...That would do it." Then he straightened and smiled rather grimly. "Although I would rather be a friend to console you right now, Erestor has asked for you to come, immediately."The Elvenking looked at him warily. "He is still awake at this hour?""Not for much longer, I think, but he insisted that you come to see him now." the Elf Lord's expression grew thoughtful and worried. "I have never seen him so adamant before, not even when trying to get the twins to come to his lessons."The attempt at humor worked and Thranduil let out a small but genuine chuckle. "I had better not keep him waiting."Glorfindel walked with him to the Halls of Healing, where Elrond was waiting outside. The dark-haired Elf Lord gave the Elvenking a pointed stare with sharp silver eyes."Do not linger. Erestor needs actual sleep.""I know." Thranduil told him. "Hopefully this will not take long."He entered the halls, which were empty except for Erestor, who laid on his bed. The scholar turned to look at the golden-haired elf, nodding slightly in acknowledgment."Elvenking Thranduil.""Erestor." the Sinda greeted. "There is no need for such formalities, mellon nin."The dark-haired scholar grimaced. "After you hear what I must tell you, you may not be so willing to call me 'friend'."The blue-eyed elf was momentarily at a loss for words, but recovered and chuckled. "I am sure that our conversation will not go that badly.""Do not be so sure." Erestor said softly. "I... Well, I would not say that I have lied, but I have withheld information from my explanation earlier."Unease settled into Thranduil's bones like an icy chill. Erestor's wise, sad eyes rose to meet his, and the Elvenking felt a sudden urge to look away, to back out of the room and run. He did not know why, but he knew he did not want to hear what was coming next..."There are four more lines of the Prophecy." the other revealed quietly. "I thought it best to keep them from the others, but you have a right to know..."The Elvenking forced himself not to speak or interrupt, instead staring at the scholar with intense blue eyes as he began to speak."'When Darkness rules and hope is lost, the Wielders Three will rise. One of mountains, one of the Kings, and one of the star-filled skies. On mountain's peak, in secrecy, the Black Weapons they'll find.In the place where the Darkness rules, and Blue is not kind.With blades of Black the Three must strike the heart of Arda's end.But beware, for They are Dark, and slay both foes and friends'..."Erestor trailed off, his gaze dropping from Thranduil's, and continued in a voice almost too soft to hear."...'For Light to win, and Dark to fall, there must be a price.In the end, blood will spill, in noble sacrifice.The Void will strike, the Sanctuary fall, as he slays a preserver of lifeBut he will fail, the Light prevail, with a twist of the hidden knife.'"The silence in the room was deafening. Thranduil could hear his heart pounding in his chest, each frantic, panicked beat accompanied by a face and name.Aglar. Hannel. Megilag. Barhad. Bereneth. Fael. Legolas.His children, the Chanters alongside himself, the bringers of the Sanctuary, which wasthe only place where safety could be found, where life could be preserved against the Void's deadly touch... and would only fall if one of the Chanters... if one of his children..."Are you saying one of my children is going to die?" Thranduil whispered. "'The Void will strike, the Sanctuary fall'... The only way that the Sanctuary can fail is if one of my children dies!"Fael, Megilag, and Bereneth were out who knew where trying to get to Minas Morgul. Aglar, Barhad, and Hannel were in the Palace, but enemies had gotten past the defenses before. And Legolas, free-spirited Legolas was out in the forest somewhere, and would eventually be going off on a quest to retrieve the Weapons that would help defeat the demon that was prophecy stated would kill him or one of his siblings.It could not be true. There must be a mistake. There had to be a hidden meaning in those words, a meaning that did not mean the death of one of his children. Although it would mean that there was even more of a chance of the Sanctuary falling, Thranduil wished there was another way that the magic protecting Mirkwood could fail. A way that did not mean losing another person he loved."The Sanctuary can only fall if one of your children dies... or you do." Erestor reminded him painfully.Thranduil did not acknowledge his words, caring more about his children than himself. He sank down into a chair beside the scholar's bed, putting his head in his hands.They are shaking, he realized as he pressed the trembling appendages over his face. "What am I going to do?" the Elvenking whispered. "Surely this Prophecy is not set in stone?""Nothing in the future ever is." Erestor said, trying to sound encouraging but failing greatly. "You must not lose hope or fear what is to come. Remember, the Prophecy does not just tell of death, but the destruction of the Void.""'But he will fail, the Light prevail...'" Thranduil murmured, and looked back at the scholar. "Those words bring me hope, but it does not banish the fear in my heart. The Prophecy claims we will win this war... but what will be the cost?"LOTRLOTRLOTRI am a terrible son.The thought was strong and forceful in Legolas's mind, making him cringe and forcing his already unhappy mood to worsen. He was in the tree above Ciaran's grave, idly stroking the limb of the oak as it hummed wordlessly in his ears. The assassin was regretting having run away from his father, but he could not find the will to return to the Palace and apologize for running off.I did everything wrong, the violet-eyed elf thought despairingly. Every time I told him something, and tried to explain, I just hurt him more and more. But I do not understand. How do I know when to talk to those who are fighting their comrades? Those elves wished each other bodily harm. Surely that is enough to stop them as efficiently as possible? And Ad— Thranduil's reaction to my determination to take a blow for him if the need arose... why did he react like that? He was so upset. Why? Yes, parents are supposed to protect their children, but aren't we supposed to do the same thing? Why wouldn't I jump in front of an arrow if I could, to save him? I would do it for any of my family and friends. I would die so they could live, like Ciaran did for me. Is that not a common belief among them? Or maybe they have not ever thought about having to do such a thing...Legolas shook his head, turning on the limb so his legs were no longer dangling and instead were stretched out in front of him. I know that my upbringing was far different than others', but Ciaran did the best he could in the environment we were trapped in. I know that certain... assassin-like mentalities are etched within my reactions and mind, but surely that is not a bad thing. Is it? The way that A— Thranduil responded to how I dealt with the elves... was he disappointed in me? He acted like what I had done was wrong, but is it? If it is... what else am I doing wrong? Is all of this cultural things I am unaware of?The self-doubt was gnawing at the elf, insecurity creeping in like a desolate fog. He had always been so certain, and had been sure that he was doing well enough by society's standards, but now... now he was just confused.I feel like a blind man, the assassin thought. A blind man who is speaking to someone who is describing the color of the sky. How can I know the color of the sky if I have never seen it before? Thranduil must think I am an uncultured fool.Legolas quickly ignored that thought. That was not true. The Elvenking was being extremely patient, and was just trying to teach his son things he had thought the young elf already knew. Morality, experiences, vows, values, and mentalities... Trying to learn, explain and teach them to others is like trying to untie a terrible knot. I may not understand Ad— Thranduil's morals and instinctive expectations, but he does not understand mine either. I do not want to ask him to try to explain again, for I fear I will only become even more confused.I should ask him about my past. Not about me or who I was... but maybe about the people around me. About my... mother, perhaps? Asking about her would be all right, wouldn't it? Or would it hurt him to talk about her?Acceptance was still slow in coming, but Legolas was beginning to get past his shock, inching towards curiosity and wonder. He still could not believe he was a Prince— He still was not a Prince and could not see him in such a role any time soon— but the fact that he had a family and knew them was starting to fully register in his mind.I want to know about my siblings, and Adar, and Naneth, he suddenly decided. How did my parents first meet? What pranks did Fael pull when he was younger? Did Bereneth ever threaten an ellon with her sword? What does Hannel like to do when she's not in the public eye? What are her interests?The questions came sudden and quick, and Legolas found a smile creeping onto his face in response to his own curiosity. I already know a few of my siblings better than would know strangers. Perhaps understanding them and accepting them all as my kin will not be as difficult as I once thought. I... I really do want a family. I want to know... my family.The violet-eyed elf leapt down from the tree, and began the long trek back towards the Palace. His stomach cramped and his hands trembled with nerves and he almost laughed at himself. I am a deadly assassin, who has fought countless enemies without flinching, yet I am shaking like a leaf at the thought of asking my father a few questions."I can do this." he murmured to himself. "I can go and simply ask Thra— Adar all of these questions. He'll answer. I know he will."And maybe he will be happy.It was odd, how greatly the assassin longed for something so simple. But maybe simplicity was all that he needed right then. Little steps would take him to answers and acceptance. There was no need to rush things, or try to force himself into a role he did not understand. Unless death came for him, or Iãgaw won the war, he had all the time in the world to learn everything he needed to.As Legolas walked the forest around him grew lighter, the firm grip of nighttime falling before the sun's rising rays. The violet-eyed elf watched as the leaves turned from shaded hues to brighter golds and greens, even the shadowed trees' blackened leaves reflecting pieces of light. However, the beauty of nature did not hold his attention long, and his thoughts soon turned inward once more.Has it truly only been less than a day since I was told about my family? The assassin thought. It seems as if it has been longer. Perhaps I was more willing to accept the truth than I assumed.For some reason, that thought brought him hope. He had always felt a connection with the members of his family— some more than others— so maybe his feelings for them were not as far out of reach as he had feared. He did not remember the Royals as his family, but maybe, deep down, he—Without warning, the shadowed trees around him began to thrash and hiss in wordless confusion, their harsh voices pushing away the remainder of the assassin's thoughts. Now alert, he reached out with his senses, but could sense nothing out of place in the energies around him. However, that did not mean there was not any danger. Legolas unsheathed his knives, unmoving as he tried to decipher the trees' chaotic babble of voices.What is wrong? He spoke to them in a mental shout, their confusion only strengthening his own.Most of the trees ignored him, attention riveted on whatever they knew that he did not. Their confusion turned to curiosity, and swiftly morphed into joyful sadism. A single small oak focused on Daelas, speaking in a voice much younger than the great ancients of the forest.Two elves. It said in a voice that could be compared to that of a young child's. Two elves fight.Legolas winced, recalling his conversation with Thranduil once more. He could sense the elves now, their bright auras familiar but unable to be matched with faces. The assassin headed in that direction, still speaking to the tree.Why are they fighting? He asked.Don't know. The shadowed tree said. Elf angry.The trees hissed and jeered around Legolas, ignoring him and the tree in favor of the fight they were watching with rapt attention.Angry fighting raging elves! The trees laughed harshly. Punch and scratch and kick and choke! They paused, still observing something the elf could not see, and spoke in a fascinated tone. One of them can't breathe...The assassin was flat out running by then, the meaning of the trees' distorted words— and the flickering aura he sensed— lending speed to his feet. He burst past the foliage, forsaking silence for haste, and his eyes rested upon the scene.Before him, Glamour, warrior of Mirkwood, had his hands wrapped firmly around another elf's throat.Legolas barely registered what was happening before he lunged, knocking the warrior off of his victim. The blue-lipped, pale elf gave a harsh gasp as he breathed in a desperate gulp of air, coughing weakly. The assassin distantly recognized the panting elf as the Galadrim who had been a part of the brawl he had interfered in.The violet-eyed elf did not turn to the Lothlorien elf however, remaining focused on Glamour. The warrior had recovered from the assassin's shove, stumbling to his feet and glaring at Legolas with enraged, wild eyes. The assassin shifted his weight slightly, waiting for the other to come to him. A quick jab would paralyze the other, neutralizing the threat he posed—"Legolas, you cannot paralyze people and leave them outside!... That is not how one would usually deal with a situation like that... They were acting out on their anger. They just lost their home and their emotions were running high. That is why they were fighting..."Thranduil's words echoed in the young elf's head, and indecisiveness claimed him. He did not know what to do. His father had said that stopping the fight through violence was wrong, but was this situation similar to that—Light reflected off of metal, catching Legolas's attention, and he jerked to the side.The dagger— meant for his heart— instead cut a gash along his chest. The assassin winced as he felt the metal slide along one of his ribs, thankfully only slicing the surface of his skin rather than plunging into his chest. Glamour's other hand grabbed the violet-eyed elf's arm, grip tight enough to hurt.Punch him in the stomach. Grip his arm, paralyze the limb. Strike his throat, knock him unconscious. Eliminate threats. Legolas forced himself to ignore the instincts snarling at him to take out the warrior. His muscles remained purposely relaxed. Do not attack. He told himself. This is an ally. He is— a threat— not a threat.If not for the clear, angry blue eyes that stared at him, if not for the light, blazing aura he sensed, Legolas would think that Glamour was Shadowed. The terrible rage in his eyes worried the violet-eyed elf, the obvious threat in his grip, and the promise of violence in his stance made the assassin want nothing more than to lash out, to defend himself, now. But what if Glamour was only angry and upset again, like that other time? What was he supposed to do then?"...we try to stop the fighting peacefully, by talking to them." Thranduil whispered in his mind.Secretly, Legolas doubted this would work, but he supposed he had to try. Do not eliminate the threat. This is an ally. "Glamour—" the violet-eyed elf began."Get out of my way!" the warrior snarled and half-shoved, half-threw Legolas to the side, knife slashing through the air.The pale blonde-haired elf twisted, the knife's tip catching his clothes rather than his skin. The assassin hit the ground and rolled to his feet in a single movement. Any thoughts of trying to talk to the elf ceased, the assassin unable to hold his instincts back any longer.Neutralize threat.Legolas swayed back out of the path of a sideways sweep of the dagger and pressed a nerve on the warrior's arm, making him drop the dagger. The heel of the young elf's other hand snapped up and connecting with the warrior's jaw. Glamour's head snapped back but he recovered, lunging for the assassin with an almost-feral cry. There was no room to dodge.The violet-eyed elf fell with his enemy, right arm pinned by the warrior's body. Unable to get the leverage to throw the other off, Legolas instead struck Glamour in the midsection with a closed fist. The Mirkwood elf gave a grunt, but did not recoil or go limp, his tolerance for moves that would normally incapacitate or knock out foes like him more than alarming—Hands wrapped around the assassin's throat.LOTRLOTRLOTRTranslations:Nana/Naneth: Mommy/Mom/MotherAda/Adar: Daddy/Dad/FatherMellon nin: my friendDaesīdh: ShadowpeaceDūrcuil: DarklifeMornestel: BlackhopeA/N: Sorry for the wait. And the cliffhanger. Thank you to those who read and reviewed. I'm also sorry for not responding again. I haven't even read half of the reviews for last chapter. A family member has been in the hospital so... yeah. She's ok now though. :) IMPORTANT NOTE: After much debate, I have decided to make All That Remains into two stories (like a series/duet). Book one will keep its title and all that. I am hesitantly calling book two "All That Remains: The Shadow War", and plan on editing the intro/author's note portion in the first chapter of Part Two in consideration of that. Part Two has really become less about the big scale of things, and more about Legolas, Thranduil, and the family. Part Three/The sequel is where the the Shadow War really begins. This story is not at the cut off point yet, but I am telling you this now so you don't freak out when you see the story is "complete" in a few chapters. Don't worry about that yet though.Please review. 


********** Page 40 **********

Chapter Thirty-Nine: FallenLegolas choked, only his iron will keeping him from panicking as Glamour mercilessly strangled him. Struggling to remember that this foe was an elf— supposedly an ally— the assassin barely kept himself from unsheathing one of his hidden daggers and stabbing the other in the chest. Instead a small blade sank into Glamour's left wrist. The warrior screamed in pain, releasing his choke-hold on the assassin.The violet-eyed elf pulled air into his lungs, throat aching but he ignored his discomfort and lashed out, kicking the other solidly in the stomach and sending him hurtling back. Glamour recovered his footing in time to dodge Legolas's next strike, but the assassin grabbed his arm and used his momentum against him, throwing the warrior to the ground.Not an enemy. Do not kill. Not an enemy. His mind chanted, because he could execute the other so easily...For the first time, Legolas truly understood how sparing a foe was harder than killing one. But Glamour was not an enemy. He was not......Right?The warrior lunged once more, the assassin tensing as he waited for the other to come... and Glamour was jerked back, feet lifting off of the ground as a long, wiry limb wrapped around him. The Mirkwood elf screamed, terror breaking through whatever madness had claimed him, as around them the shadowed trees roared, snarling and hissing with absolute fury.You hurt Daelas! They screamed in rage. You hurt our Shadow Leaf! Kill kill kill kill! Wooden limbs tightened, writhing and coiling around Glamour like snakes, and Legolas watched, frozen, as another limb rose as if ready to stab.This elf is not an enemy, his mind reminded him."Don't!" the violet-eyed elf cried aloud, desperate. "Do not hurt him!"The shadowed trees paused, hesitating, though they continued to snarl and scream. He hurt Daelas. He hurt Daelas. He hurt Daelas!I am all right, Legolas told them. Let him go. He is not a threat.The assassin was unsure of how well he would be able to convince the trees that Glamour was an ally when he himself did not believe that to be true. Regardless of whatever had been going through the warrior's mind or whatever emotions may have been clouding his judgment, the elf had attacked and tried to kill two of his comrades. That did not bode well.He tried to stab Daelas! The trees shrieked. He tried to choke Daelas! Kill the backstabbing-evil-bad-not-Shadowed-evil elf!The tree's limbs constricted threateningly around Glamour, and the elf went limp. His body relaxed and his head lolled, an oddly peaceful expression falling over his face as he fled consciousness. The assassin struggled with himself, uncertainty pricking at his mind. The warrior had attempted to murder a fellow warrior— and guest— then proceeded to attack the violet-eyed elf with little provocation. That was a behavior only Shadowed Elves showed, yet Glamour's eyes had been as bright and colorful as any elf's. So why had he attacked? What madness had claimed him?No. Legolas said as firmly as he could. Do not kill him. Release him.Why? The shadowed trees spat. Why should we let the evil-not-shadowed elf live?He is ill. The assassin told them, mind whirling as he tried to rationalize his argument to the trees. The Elvenking will want him alive to discover why he has become evil.'Why'? It does not matter 'why'! The trees snarled. He deserves punishment. He deserves death!"And he will be punished." a new voice said.Legolas turned, twitching slightly as Aglar stepped up beside him. He had not even sensed his brother's approach. The Crown Prince glanced at the assassin, eyes scanning him for injuries. His forehead creased when he noticed the blood on the violet-eyed elf's tunic but he delayed what concern he felt, speaking again to the angry trees."I heard what was happening through your Light kin. Glamour is a good warrior, and a trusted friend. He would not attack a comrade and Esgal without something external influencing him. The Elvenking will need him alive to try to discern what made him so erratically violent. For all we know, more elves could be suffering from this madness."The trees branches curled in a way similar to a clenching fist. There may be other bad-not-Shadowed elves? They asked."Yes. There might be." Aglar said. "That is why we need Glamour alive, so we to figure out the signs and symptoms of this illness. That way we can identify other... bad-not-Shadowed elves and stop them before they can harm their comrades, the Liberators, and Es—... Daelas."The mention of their Shadow Leaf was enough of an argument for the trees. Branches loosened and Glamour was dropped unceremoniously to the ground. The unconscious warrior made a soft thud as he hit the earth, but Legolas felt little sympathy for him. The assassin moved to the elf's intended victim's side, noting that the Galadrim's eyes were half-open and that he was breathing harshly. However, he looked more shocked than injured.The violet-eyed elf felt a flicker of irritation before forcing it away. Not everyone could brush off being nearly strangled in order to leap up and fight. Still, it would have been helpful of the conscious elf to at least try to assist Legolas when Glamour was attacking him."Can you stand?" he asked the Galadrim.The other nodded and got off the ground, rubbing his throat as he walked past the assassin. Legolas looked skyward and sighed softly before turning to Aglar, who was hoisting Glamour onto his shoulder. The feat looked more impressive than it was. Elves were naturally stronger than men, but actually weighed less than they looked. The Crown Prince's eyes followed the Lothlorien warrior before catching the assassin's gaze. He shrugged, adjusting his hold on the unconscious Glamour."I'm sure Calaer is very grateful to you for saving him." he said with a hint of dry humor in his voice. "Let's make sure he doesn't collapse on the way to the Palace, yes?"Legolas walked beside his brother at a quick but steady pace, keeping Calaer's back in sight as the Lothlorien elf determinedly made his way back to the Elvenking's stronghold. The danger having passed, the assassin became acutely aware of pain where Glamour's dagger had cut him, along with a low ache around his throat. The pain was nothing more than a slight stinging along his ribs and a little pain at his neck, but it was enough to cause discomfort when moving.He grimaced, unwilling to reach up and touch either spot and draw attention to his miniscule injuries. They were not that far from the Elvenking's stronghold, and he could check his wounds there. However, it seemed that Aglar had his own sixth sense having to do with such things. The moment Legolas's hand twitched towards his chest the Crown Prince looked at him, eyes narrowing."Are you injured?"The question was more of a demand. Before Legolas could respond the Prince had stopped, set Glamour on the ground, and had suddenly turned into a silver-haired warrior version of Lord Elrond. It took him less than an eye-blink to discover the slice along the assassin's ribs, though the violet-eyed elf tried to casually hide the cut in his tunic with his arm."Why did you not mention that you were stabbed?" the Crown Prince half-shouted, drawing the aloof Calaer's attention and making him wander back towards the Mirkwood elves.Aglar practically shoved Legolas down into a sitting position, ignoring his protests."I was not stabbed. The knife just nicked the skin—""'Nicked'?" the blue-eyed elf spluttered incredulously. "Esgal, you have a five inch long gash on your chest!""It is not a gash. It is... more of a thin cut. It's not even bleeding that much, see?"Legolas showed his brother the cut— truly it was not bad, at all— and thought he heard Calaer snigger, most likely amused that the two elves were arguing like elflings.The Crown Prince grabbed something white from his sleeve and held it to the small laceration. "It is still bleeding. You were still injured. You need to tell me when you're hurt like this."The assassin grudgingly let the silver-haired elf fuss over the cut. "The knife just sliced me because I did not move quickly enough," he said, irritated. "You're acting like I am missing an arm!""I don't care! The point is that you were injured yet you decided to not tell me and instead walked around like nothing had happened!" Aglar snapped, voice taut.Legolas glared at him and turned away petulantly. "I am fine and I can take care of myself." he muttered like a mantra. "Stop being a mother hen, Muindor."The Crown Prince paused and the assassin froze, eyes flicking wide. The violet-eyed elf's mind whirled and he felt a rush of panic. His oldest brother did not know his true identity, Thranduil keeping the news from Aglar for reasons unknown. And although Legolas disagreed with his father's decision to keep his past from him, he had to believe the Elvenking was keeping it a secret from his other children for a good reason."I-I meant Gwador." he stuttered, forcing a laugh and feeling slight relief when it sounded genuine. "I apologize. I always do manage to get those words con—""You're five hundred."Calaer's voice made both elves jump. They had forgotten the Lothlorien elf was still there. He was staring at Legolas with a distantly puzzled expression on his face, as if he was trying to recall something that eluded him. The assassin looked back, expression blank. Then Calaer's eyes widened. "Y-You're five hundred."The Crown Prince was looking at the Galadrim like he had lost his mind. Legolas's reaction was more alarmed than anything. Surely Calaer had not put together what had evaded so many—"Impossible." the Lothlorien elf whispered, paling rapidly and causing the assassin's stomach to drop. "Y-You can't b-be—""What are you rambling on about?" Aglar asked coolly, though with a slight hint of wariness. After Glamour lost his mind, it was no surprise the Crown Prince was on edge. "Did you get knocked on the head? Why does it matter that Esgal is five... hundred... years...?"The Crown Prince stared at the assassin with wide eyes, face draining of color. Legolas did not know what to do. Should he confirm it? Should he deny it? He wanted nothing more than to smile and maybe hug the silver-haired elf — to say, yes, he was his lost brother— but a sudden shift in Aglar's expression gave him pause. The Crown Prince's jaw clenched and his eyes hardened. Without a word, he turned sharply away, picking up Glamour once more. He took a step and stopped, icy blue eyes settling on Calaer."Do not tell anyone." he ordered warningly, voice almost a growl.Without waiting for a reply he stalked off, not looking at Legolas again. The assassin stared after him in bewilderment, claws sinking into his heart. The look in Aglar's eyes had been easily identifiable. He was angry....What did I do wrong? The assassin thought miserably.Aglar did not speak to Legolas or Calaer for the short remainder of the trip. His entire body radiated such tension and simmering rage that even the trees around them remained silent. The assassin stayed behind the Crown Prince, slightly to the side so that he could glance at him every few seconds. Any confidence the violet-eyed elf had gained for dealing with his family was slowly dwindling as he tried and failed to figure out why his oldest brother was reacting in this way.The Crown Prince dropped off Glamour with a short explanation and an order for the guards to keep him imprisoned, then allowed the healers to take Calaer to make sure there would be no lasting problems. Still not looking at Legolas, Aglar stormed through the halls like a hurricane, elves and hobbits scrambling to get to a safe distance as he passed.The assassin followed him silently, giving a few flustered passerby apologetic looks for his brother's behavior. He did not realize where they were going until they were outside Thranduil's office door. Aglar opened it harshly, the wood banging against the wall. Inside, the room's occupants— Thranduil, Radagast, Elrond, Glorfindel, Galadriel, and Gandalf— looked up.Without a word or warning, the Crown Prince stalked up to the Brown Wizard, his fist meeting the Istar's face. More than one jaw dropped as Radagast staggered back, wincing as he held a bloody nose. Rather than look startled or angry, the Wizard looked grimly resigned."Aglar Thranduilion, calm yourself!" Gandalf bellowed.Aglar ignored the Gray Wizard, eyes only for the Brown Istar. "You knew." His voice shook with suppressed rage as his hands clenched and unclenched at his sides. "You knew."Radagast held his robe to his nose, waving a hand to stop Elrond as the Elf Lord approached. "You reacted just like your father." he said benignly. "I hope that not all of you feel the need to assault me, otherwise I might—"The Crown Prince's attention turned to Thranduil as he cut off the Wizard. "You were aware of this as well?!" His face twisted, caught between anger and a deep-set pain. "Who else knew? Who?! Who knew that Esgal is Legolas?!"A deafening silence fell over the office as multiple heads turned to look at the assassin hovering in the doorway. Gandalf looked stunned, Galadriel looked saddened, Elrond's expression was unreadable, and Erestor looked suspiciously unsurprised. For the second time in less than a day, Legolas wished he could sink into the ground, the familiar urge to flee rising up.Thranduil rose from his seat, hands raised in a placating fashion. "Aglar—""You've both known for months, haven't you? That was why you were so stressed when Legolas was sent on that assassination mission." the silver-haired Prince hissed, voice cracking slightly. "Why did you not tell me, or Barhad, or anyone for that matter?!""Aglar—" The Elvenking tried to speak."Megilag, Bereneth, and Fael are out searching for Legolas but he's right here! Their quest is useless!""Let me—""Did you think that I would not believe an assassin was my little brother? Did you think I could not handle it? You have no right to keep this from me! And why did you even let Legolas be sent on that mission to Isengard? Would you rather send him to his death than reveal his identity—?!""Please calm yourself, Prince Aglar."The soft voice of Galadriel easily silenced the Prince's shouts like rain smothering fire. Aglar glanced at the Lady of the Light, seemed to think about what he was doing, and deflated slightly."...I apologize." he said curtly. "Did I interrupt a meeting?""Yes." Gandalf said bluntly. "Though I have to admit this is a far more intriguing topic than what we were discussing." Piercing eyes settled on Legolas, who stilled. The Gray Wizard's eyes softened slightly and when he spoke his voice was prodding yet calm. "I think it may be wise for all of us to sit and get the full story from each other, rather than shout and make accusations."Aglar colored slightly before he sat stiffly in one of the few chairs. Legolas stayed where he was until Glorfindel beckoned to him."Don't hover in the doorway. We are talking about you after all, and to not include you would be rude."He gave the Crown Prince a pointed look and Aglar grimaced. "I am sorry." he said softly, finally looking at his brother. "I was just... overwhelmed." He studied the assassin's face and winced, squeezing his eyes shut. "Ai Valar... it must have seemed like I was angry at you. For all I knew, you could have been completely unaware of who you are! I am such a fool..."Legolas hesitated, then sat beside his older brother, poking him playfully. "Do not worry about it, Muindor. I have always known you were an idiot."He managed to get a half-smile from his brother but it vanished quickly. Aglar looked up at Thranduil, eyes sliding to Radagast before returning to their father. "Explain. Please."The Elvenking sighed, and quietly did. None interrupted him, though Aglar looked as if he wanted to once or twice. He kept his silence though, taking in every word with a strained expression. When Thranduil finished, an uneasy silence returned to the room. It was broken by none other than Galadriel." I believe any questions we may have can be asked at a later time." the elven Lady said calmly. She stood, the other non-Royals rising as well. Galadriel's bright eyes settled on the three family members and she gave them a look. "You have much to discuss, so we will take our leave. Do not worry, Legolas. We will tell no one without your permission, for it is your secret to tell."She left without another word, the others following swiftly and leaving the three Royals alone. Aglar's head was in his hands, Thranduil was looking at his eldest son, and Legolas was at a loss as to what to say.Time passed and the silence grew heavier, no one making the first move."...What is Hannel's favorite color?"The words escaped Legolas's mouth without his knowledge or permission, resulting in startled looks appearing on three faces, including his own. Aglar gave an odd laugh, looking at his brother with puzzled eyes."What?""What is her favorite color?" the assassin asked again, face heating up. "When I found out who I am, I realized that I did not know any of you as well as I would like, and I just wanted to know a few small things since..." He trailed off, scowling as a smile appeared on the Crown Prince's face. "Stop laughing.""I'm not laughing." Aglar said, the slight giggle accompanying his words revealing their falsity. "It's just... out of all things... her favorite color?""I am trying to know little things about all of you because I cannot remember you." Legolas muttered, slightly snappish.His words made the grin fade from the Crown Prince's face, donning a more serious expression. "Her favorite color is bright orange." he said softly. "A... fire-like orange. She even had a gown made in that color once, long before you were born.""...If I recall correctly," Thranduil joined the conversation with the same hesitance as his children. "Fael destroyed that dress. The orange was rather... obnoxiously bright, though none of us were willing to tell your sister that. Even your mother had trouble keeping a straight face when Hannel wore it.""What did Fael do with it?" Legolas asked, curious.Aglar chuckled, posture relaxing as he recalled that day. "He used it in one of his pranks on Megilag. He used ropes and pulleys to rig our brother's closet so when he opened the door, the dress would fly out at him. Simple but effective. Megilag thought the dress was possessed by a ghost. He screamed like a young maiden and attacked the 'ghost' with his sword."Legolas smiled, trying to picture the expression on Megilag's face during the instance."All of the guards and myself came running." Thranduil reminisced. "We thought an enemy had come into the castle. Imagine our surprise when instead of my son fighting a foe, we found him on the floor tangled in the remains of an orange gown. He was quite embarrassed about it, and it took years for his fellow warriors to stop telling the tale of how their brave Prince lost a battle against a piece of clothing. Hannel was furious, and never realized that it was Fael who took the gown. She still thinks that Megilag was trying to give it to a maiden as a gift. The rest of us were just relieved it was gone.""Was it truly that terrible?" the assassin asked."It was bright enough to hurt your eyes if you looked at it for too long." his brother said solemnly. "It could have been used as a weapon to blind the orcs.""It is a pity Megilag cut it to pieces then." Legolas said in a similar tone.The room's mood had changed, shifting from tense discomfort to amiable lightheartedness. Legolas found himself reminded of conversations with Bilbo in the Shire, where they would talk about nothing dreary or important. It was even better that he was with his family.LOTRLOTRLOTRHowever, all good things must end.Hours later, Thranduil headed down to the dungeons, still thinking about his lost son. Legolas had seemed lighter and less burdened while talking and joking with his brother, once the initial argument and tension had ceased. Frankly, the Elvenking was surprised Aglar had taken as well as he had. However, his oldest son had tactfully refrained from saying much that he wanted to. The Crown Prince had caught the Sinda's eye as he left the office, and Thranduil had been chilled by the deep fear that he had seen there.Yes, Aglar had taken the news well, comparably. But the Elvenking knew his son was protective, he always had been, and also knew that every instinct had been screaming to grab Legolas and hide him away, to keep him from harm. How did the father know? Because he himself struggled to remember that his youngest could take care of himself.However, unlike Aglar, Thranduil had seen Legolas fight, both in a mock battle and during the confrontation with the hunters. The Elvenking knew the assassin was not one to skip out of the forest and fall into an orc trap, but that did not mean he worried for him. Still, the Sinda had to let his youngest keep his freedom. He had to, and more importantly he had to remind himself to. It would be so easy to forget that his Little Greenleaf was no longer so little, and smother him. Legolas could not be kept on a leash.Thranduil just hoped Aglar realized the same thing soon. And Barhad and Hannel as well. Legolas had been wary about telling his remaining two reachable siblings just yet, but decided that it would be best to tell them soon."They deserve to know." His youngest's words echoed in the golden-haired elf's mind. "I may not know them as my siblings, and may not be the brother they lost, but surely they will be happier just knowing I am all right? I know that you kept this from them for a reason, Adar, but I think everything will turn out all right. At worst, they may not believe it, but I will not be hurt by their rejection. How could I be when I myself still have trouble believing?"Oh, Greenleaf, the Elvenking thought grimly. I do not fear that they will reject you. I fear that they will accept, yet try to forge you into who they think you should be. No, not them. Just Hannel. You do not know your sister, you said so yourself, and I fear her future actions may harm you more than an enemy's blade...Reluctantly pushing his worries about his family away, the Elvenking stopped outside of a cell deep in his stronghold, peering through the door at the elf inside. Glamour was sitting with his back to the door, curled up in a corner with his head down and his arms wrapped around his knees. The Sinda studied the silent warrior for a moment before turning to one of the guards."Has he moved or said anything?""No, my King." the guard said. "After he woke he moved to that corner and has done nothing but sit there ever since."Thranduil stared at the once-proud warrior, watching as his hands twitched sporadically like he was itching to put them around someone's neck. The Sinda grimaced, then spoke to the elf."Glamour?"There was no reaction from the warrior."Glamour Galadion?"Nothing.Thranduil sighed. "Glamour this is Elvenking Thr—"The elf spun, lunging at the door. The Sinda flinched back as Glamour collided with it, blue eyes meeting wild azure ones. The Elvenking and his guards could only watch, speechless, as the warrior sneered at them, hissing.Unnerved, Thranduil hid his alarm under a calm exterior. "Glamour, you have attacked two fellow elves today. Would you tell me why?"The warrior simply stared at him with narrowed eyes, head tilted to one side. The golden-haired elf thought he was not going to answer, but then he spoke."He made me angry." His voice was calm, almost sane, but before Thranduil could respond the elf continued, tone rapidly changing to one of rage. "Stupid aloof Lothlorien elf! Always sneering, always mocking! He insulted us! I wanted him to suffer. Make him silent, make him pay."He continued muttering to himself, prowling back and forth across the length of his cell. Thranduil and the two guards observed his movements in silence, but Glamour seemed unwilling to say more. The Elvenking hid his concern behind a neutral expression as he tracked the warrior's movements. Something about the way he had spoken seemed familiar..."He's mad." the second guard finally spoke up, a hint of alarm in his voice."Indeed." Thranduil murmured. "The question is why?""I think I can answer that."Barhad entered the dungeon as quietly as ever, oddly without a single book or scroll on his person. The golden-haired Prince studied the still-mumbling Glamour, expression twisting. "I came as soon as I heard about Glamour. I think I know what is wrong with him. In fact, I was going to tell you earlier, Adar, but I could not find you..."Because I was off trying to find Legolas, Thranduil realized. "Tell me what you know." he bade his son.The Prince tucked a loose hair behind his ear, shifting slightly and looking as if he wished he had a book in his hands. "I think this might be better discussed in private, with the other leaders present."The Elvenking tensed. Was what his son had to say that bad? "All right." he said to Barhad, then turned to the guards. "One of you please gather the Elven Lords and Lady, along with the Wizards, the children of Elrond, my children, and Esgal. Tell them to meet in the unused Council Room, then return and keep watching Glamour, and contact me if he says anything else."Not much later, the mentioned people all gathered in a sizable room not far from the main hall. Their meeting place was a rarely-used room, where few went or passed by. Hopefully that would keep unwanted ears from hearing what was being discussed within.After a brief explanation of what occurred with Glamour, Barhad began without prompting. "Before the coming of the Void, I was tasked with observing the behavior and mentality of the unawakened Shadowed Elves, and I noticed a pattern. They believed themselves to be superior to all others, they reacted to small instances with anger, and at times they attacked with little provocation or warning. According to elves from both Rivendell and Lothlorien, many became like savage unthinking beasts after Iãgaw woke them fully, going for throats and attacking like animals. However, others kept their mind, it seemed, while still turning to the Darkness.""I have come to the conclusion that the Shadowed Elves have two base instincts: to serve and obey the Darkness, and to kill as many as possible. The Darkness within them twists, controls, and devours their minds, leaving little of their previous beliefs and personalities. Some are practically orcs with elven skins, while others can still think as clearly as ever, but are still absolutely loyal to their Lord.""That being said, I began to notice similar behaviors in certain Mirkwood elves after the Shadowed Elves were awakened. Irrational anger, superiority, attacking comrades without hesitating. At first I thought the behaviors were just because they were upset and scared, but then Amon attacked Esgal."Many shocked eyes turned to Legolas, who had an expression that revealed nothing on his face. Barhad quickly drew attention back to him."From what I could tell, his attack was unprovoked, sadistic, and based on a belief that Esgal wronged him in some way. Discovering this, along with Glamour's actions, has made me realize the truth: The Sanctuary did not keep Iãgaw's Darkness out of Mirkwood elves' hearts. There was Darkness and 'Shadowed' Elves, it was merely hidden, unable to come out because of the Sanctuary's power.""However, I think that when Iãgaw woke, there was a lull between his awakening and the activation of the Sanctuary's magic. Not enough for him to sense us, but enough time for the Darkness in the hidden Shadowed Elves to strengthen, just for a moment. Because of that, the 'illness' of the Shadowed Elves was present within those elves. But before it could fully take hold, it was forced out by the Chant."Barhad's intelligent eyes scanned his silent audience, expression grim. "The Darkness was forced out. The behaviors and insanity were not. Darkness and evil was purged from Mirkwood, but an illness of the mind cannot be forced out so easily. These elves are not Shadowed, for they do not serve Iãgaw, but they are dangerous all the same. The mentality of the Shadowed Elves is within them: The anger, the feeling of superiority, and the willingness to fight and hurt anyone who 'wrongs' them. They are not Shadowed... but I think 'Fallen' may be the right term to identify them.""Indeed." Gandalf said solemnly. "If this war ever ends, and the West again opens itself to the elves, I fear that the Valar will not give refuge to those who would harm their kin so easily.""But wouldn't Valinor be the one place the Fallen Elves could heal?" Arwen asked."Perhaps." Elrond said. "Valinor is said to heal all wounds, even those of the mind. We should try to contain the Fallen Elves rather than kill them. They are lost, not Dark.""That does not help us now, though." Celeborn pointed out. "The sea-longing has been taken, and may never be returned.""Even if it does not, the Fallen Elves are here, in Mirkwood. You cannot sense something wrong in the Fallen Elves'... 'auras', can you?" Hannel asked suddenly, looking at Elrohir."No." the younger twin said shortly, a frown on his face. "Though I have not been close to a Fallen Elf, and Esgal is better at sensing than me.""I sensed nothing odd in Amon or Glamour's auras." the assassin told them, body stilling when they all looked at him once more. "If I did not see them attack, I would not have known anything was wrong.""Glamour's speech had degraded greatly when I just spoke to him," Thranduil said, finally realizing what Glamour's speech and attitude reminded him of. "He was speaking like the shadowed trees.""Amon showed no such deterioration." Aglar frowned, rising from his seat. "Does anyone know where he is?""I haven't seen him since yesterday." Thranduil said. Although the only reason I would want to see him now is so I can show him the sharp end of my sword..."That is two more good elves who have been lost to us." Arwen murmured. "Their actions are not their fault.""Their fault or not, they are still dangerous." Aragorn said adamantly. "Based on what Barhad has said, they will try to kill and hurt others.""Which is why they must be contained." Elrond repeated."I think you all are missing the point." Glorfindel spoke up, surveying them all with solemn blue eyes. "We have an unknown number of elves inside the Sanctuary that are as deadly as orcs. If they become angry, they will not care who they hurt or who they kill. And unless we carefully track the behavior of all of the Mirkwood elves in the Sanctuary we have no means to identify them. It is true that Glamour and Amon acted alone, but what if the Fallen Elves with similar ideas of superiority and revenge join forces. We could be facing a war within this realm. Here, in the only place that Iãgaw cannot touch, we could very well be torn apart from within."LOTRLOTRLOTRTranslations:Muindor: Brother (blood)Gwador: Brother (sworn)For your convenience, here is a list of people who knows Legolas's identity now: Legolas, Thranduil, Aglar, Barhad, Glorfindel, Bilbo, Frodo, Radagast, Gandalf, Galadriel, Elrond, Erestor, Calaer, Amon. (I think that's all of them)A/N: Sorry for the wait. I rewrote this chapter so many times... It just would not come out right! (Eye twitches). Plus I've been doing essays. Lots and lots of projects and essays... (I swear the teachers all conspire to dump a bunch of projects on students all at the same time.)Parts were a little more humorous and/or fluffy than I intended, and Aglar's acceptance was smoother than I planned. I was originally going to have Aglar get into an argument with Thranduil about letting Legolas out of his sight, but I decided I just wanted a reunion to be (mostly) nice for Legolas for once. No sudden angst, no running, no mess ups. Just nice family bonding. :)The Fallen Elves are much like Shadowed Elves in terms of... "sentience". Some can be as clear-headed as a normal elf, others can pretty much be feral. Hopefully all of that made sense...Next chapter is the last one, then its on to The Shadow War.Thank you to everyone who reviewed, and for all of the encouragement, nagging, and support! ...I'm not responding again. I'm sorrrrryyyyyyyyyy! :'(Please review! (Please note that there won't be responses to individual guest reviewers next chapter because I am planning on putting a FAQ section at the bottom instead along with my final A/N).And now to get back to all of the projects I have to do... Anyone want to write three twelve paged essays?......Anyone?


********** Page 41 **********

Disclaimer: I do not own the Lord of the Rings or any characters except my OCs. If you use my OCs without permission I will send Iãgaw after you.A/N: Sorry for the wait. I could rant about life and essays, but this is the last chapter of Book One! I'm excited! :D Just so you know, there is a long FAQ section at the bottom of this chapter.Enjoy!LOTRLOTRLOTRChapter Forty: The Lost PrinceI can do this. I can do this. I can... ...I can't do this.Legolas sat on the bed of his guest room in the Elvenking's Palace, violet eyes staring unblinkingly at the wall across from him. If anyone had come in and casually observed the assassin, they might think he was meditating or had somehow fallen asleep sitting up. Only the more knowledgeable or perceptive person would see the tension in the young elf's body and the unnatural stillness that made him seem like a statue made of flesh. Anyone else would be pacing, twitching, or wringing their hands, but Legolas was not 'anyone else'. Instead of moving, he showed— or perhaps hid— his nerves with a blank expression and a rigid, unmoving stance.Today was the day that he would tell his two ignorant siblings his identity. The very thought of revealing the truth made something squeeze uncomfortably in Legolas's chest and he resisted the urge to sink into the emotionless state that beckoned him. His fear was irrational. He had not been afraid when he told Thranduil that he wanted Hannel and Barhad to know the truth, but now that the time was slowly coming nearer, something close to panic had seized the assassin's mind.What if they do not believe me? What if they hate me? What if they expect a Prince instead of an assassin? What if they are disgusted by what I am?Old memories of Hannel's impassive face when he first met her as Esgal decades ago mocked the violet-eyed elf and his right fist gripped the blankets below him, fingers sinking into the fabric like claws.I should not be so worried. I do not even know Hannel that well, only in passing... But that is the point. I do not know her, but she is my sister. I am supposed to know her. Legolas reached up and pressed a hand against his forehead, as if doing so would force the memories to of his childhood to come forth. They remained stubbornly hidden, trapped behind his mental shield, encased in his suppressed inner light. The knowledge that they were right there hurt, but the assassin could not retrieve them now. His shield could be his only defense against the Darkness once he and his future companions went on the quest to retrieve the Black Weapons.It will be almost a month until the envoys from the other realms arrive for the Council. It would be quicker if a group were to leave for the Dark Lands now, but Erestor insists that representatives from all realms must go. I hate that we have to delay this. Who knows what Iãgaw is doing now? I doubt that the Void is sitting in Minas Morgul twiddling his thumbs...... If not for him, I would be able to release my inner light without the threat of Darkness hanging over my head. Legolas frowned slightly, blinking before his lips curled upward. Look at me, blaming a demon for my problems... The smile quickly vanished. The point is that I cannot retrieve my memories to help me. I am not the Lost Prince and yet I am. I am him in body, but in mind and soul... I am Esgal. I cannot remember what it was like to be Prince Legolas Thranduilion. I've been lucky enough so far that my family has been understanding about who and what I am, but will Hannel and Barhad accept me as well? Or will I have the encounter that Adar fears?The knock on the door was not startling, but Legolas's already tense body went just a little more stiff. His violet eyes flicked to the door, to see Aragorn standing in the doorway. The Ranger met his gaze, twitched slightly, and invited himself into the room."So this is where you have been all day," he commented casually. "I spent hours trying to find you. I was going to ask if you wanted to join one of the teams searching for Amon, but they went out ahead."The pale blonde haired elf's mood dropped further at the sound of the Adviser's name. Personally, he was glad that Amon was... out of the Palace. Last anyone had seen of him was shortly after Legolas's encounter with him, though only a few people knew about that. And though he tried to not think such morbid thoughts, the assassin could not help but wonder if one of his aware family members had done something to the Fallen Elf..."Why didn't you ask Elrohir where I was?" the assassin asked belatedly, mind elsewhere.Aragorn's eyebrows rose, expression screaming incredulity. "He cannot sense you." The Ranger reminded the elf."...Right." Legolas mumbled."Are you all right?" the silver-eyed man asked after a pause, concern so evident the assassin internally winced. "Your eyes are dark."The pale blonde-haired elf blinked rapidly, reaching up to touch the area just next to his left eye. "Are they?" he muttered, almost to himself."Yes." Aragorn informed him, voice firm. "Aglar told me what happened the last time your eyes looked like that. Apparently you made a man break just by staring at him.""I remember." Legolas stated, and his voice was too flat for his liking.He rubbed at his closed eyes as if doing so would help him regain control over himself. Emotionless is not necessary, Valar curse it! He thought, half-irritated, half-ashamed. I have better control than this. I do not have to shut off emotions just because my siblings might reject me...The Ranger hovered in front of him for a moment, apparently unable to think of how to respond, then sighed and sat beside the assassin. "Do you want to talk about why you are sitting in the dark and brooding?" he asked bluntly, obviously trying to draw the elf away from said 'brooding'.Legolas did not smile. "I am not brooding. I am worrying."Aragorn's voice remained light. "What? No teasing about how I need lessons on diplomacy, or how I have the tact of Gimli?""I do not feel like partaking in witty banter at the moment." the assassin said flatly.The Ranger's expression shifted back into one of concern. "Now you have to talk to me. Why are you so afraid?""I'm not afraid." Legolas stated.Aragorn gave him a glare that was eerily similar to Lord Elrond's. "Well, obviously something is bothering you greatly enough that—"Unintentionally, the assassin responded to the man's glower with one of his own. Black eyes bore into alarmed silver and Aragorn flinched."All right, I can see why that Hunter was so terrified." the Ranger said in a rush, voice tight.Legolas dropped his gaze. "I apologize.""There's no need for that. It is just... startling." He heard Estel draw in a shaky breath, then release it. "Look, I know that this is what happens when you suppress your emotions. But surely you know that you do not have to hide what you are feeling anymore?""Yes. However, that is easier to say than do." the assassin admitted. "I am... trying to sort out and face what I am feeling rather than hold it off until a later time, but I am currently failing in that regard.""You do not have to deal with whatever is bothering you by yourself." Aragorn insisted. "Please, tell me what is bothering you so greatly."The genuine concern in Estel's voice struck the elf hard, and he glanced at the Ranger with lightening violet eyes before his gaze dropped once more. Here was a man who only wanted to help, to relieve his friend of some of the weight of the burden he carried. He did not seek the truth about Legolas's innermost fears and thoughts for personal gain, or to find a way to use them against the assassin. His only desire was to lend an ear, and give advice if he could. But why would he want to know Legolas's problems for his own agenda? Why would he see emotions as a weakness and use them to cause the elf pain? Simply put, he would not. And neither would any others who the assassin called friend.Even after all these years, my time in Dol Guldur haunts me, Legolas thought, sighing softly. The Witch-King may have failed in making me emotionless, but he succeeded in making if difficult for me to trust others enough to express what I am feeling around them... But Aragorn is right. I do not need to hide my deepest fears and feelings anymore.Legolas looked up, bright violet eyes meeting calm silver, and spoke the bittersweet truth. "I am Legolas, the Lost Prince."Saying the words out loud sent a mixture of joy and fear through him. Joy because he had a family, he had a past, he had not been abandoned. Fear because he was not a Prince, he did not remember how to be one, and he did not know what to do. What was expected from him? Was anything expected from him? What would happen when everyone was told the truth? How would they react? Would they believe it? Esgal being Legolas could not be hidden forever, especially when his three absent siblings returned from their mission empty-handed...The silver-eyed man slowly processed what his friend had just revealed to him. Other than a slight widening of his eyes he showed no outward reaction. Legolas was uncertain whether he was truly that calm or if he was hiding his shock for his friend's sake. Most likely the former was the case."I understand." Were the first words out of the Ranger's mouth, surprising the elf. Estel looked at Esgal with a deep sympathy and comprehension in his eyes. "Although my situation is far different than yours, I too know what it is like to discover you are a lost royal."And suddenly, sharing the truth with Aragorn seemed like the best decision the assassin had ever made. His body relaxed, emotionless mask melting away, and Legolas looked upon the Heir of Isildur with shared compassion. "Of course. You did not know about your heritage until you were an adult.""Yes." the man said with a nod. "I was quite shocked about discovering that I am meant to rule Gondor someday. In Adar's defense, he did teach me what I will need to know about leading my people in the future. I was prepared a little, but the news was still a slap to the face. Still... nothing could prepare you for finding out you were a Prince.""Apparently telling me about my royal title was not on Ciaran's priority list." Legolas said dryly. His expression grew troubled. "Unless Ciaran thought I knew. His nickname for me was Prince, but I thought that was a joke because some men assume all elves are Lords and Ladies." The assassin sighed. "It is not the title itself that is bothering me, however. It is the expectations that come with me being the Lost Prince. You know that you have to lead Gondor someday, but I have no idea what I am supposed to do. I do not know what my family were and are expecting when their Lost Prince returns, but an assassin with no memory of them is certainly not it. I am happy that I have a family, I truly am, but a part of me wishes that I was the son of some nameless warrior, not the Elvenking! Then I would not have to try to change who I am to become what—""Stop right there." Aragorn interrupted abruptly. "Just because you are a Prince does not mean you have to act like one."The assassin looked at him. "If only it were that easy. I know I am the youngest Royal but surely—""Just listen." the Ranger insisted, and Legolas went quiet. "As a royal I know that normally a Prince cannot simply ignore his title and do what he wishes. He cannot roam the forest, sneak into enemy strongholds, and save foolish men that fall off of cliffs— I am not talking about myself. Stop smirking!"The violet-eyed elf's grin only widened.The Ranger shook his head but continued in a more serious tone. "They may not do that, but you do. You do not have to let your heritage change you. You are an adult and your past ad personality have been molded into what makes you you. No one expects you to sit in meetings, lead warriors in battle, or negotiate with other realms. It takes Royals years of training to learn about those things, and you have learned almost nothing about all that. Nor do you need to because that is not who you are. You are a Prince in title and bloodline only, not in mind or soul. No one expects a sailor who loves the sea to become a farmer, trapped on land. Trying to change himself to fit that type of work would only hurt him.""Remember this, Legolas." Aragorn said with conviction. "You do not need to change who you are, and you do not need to become or pretend to be something you are not. If someone tries to force you to or expects you to fit their image of you, then they are not worthy of your friendship or your respect."The assassin mused about this for a long, quiet moment. Then he looked up, and smiled at the man. "...Thank you. I think I know what I will do now." His smile grew more mischievous, closer to an mock-evil smirk than a happy grin. "I have ignored people's wills and social constrictions before now, so I may as well keep doing that. I just hope that my siblings do not try to push their beliefs on me, at least."Something in the Ranger's expression hardened. "Like I said, if they do that, they do not deserve your respect. I know it will hurt you and your father if you and your siblings do not get along, but if they love you, they will accept you. No matter what."There was a tap on the door, and the two friends turned to see Thranduil standing there. His expression was solemn and reassuring, but Legolas could see the worry and slight fear in his aura and blue eyes."Your siblings are free at the moment." the Elvenking said. "It is time."LOTRLOTRLOTRAglar sat in one of the lowest branches of his mother's tree, peering down at the three elves below him. Up among the ancient living wood, with the sturdy branches holding him securely aloft, the Crown Prince understood why Legolas liked to stay in the treetops rather than sit on benches or the ground. It was intriguing to observe others without being a true part of the group, and the low hum of the tree's voice in his ears was incredibly soothing. It was as if by sitting in the tree's branches, Aglar had given it permission to speak with him. It did in vague thrums and pulses of emotions, not putting words to its thoughts because the silver-haired elf had not asked it anything, and merely brushed at his consciousness to let him know it was there.Hannel, Barhad, and Lachon were sitting serenely in the garden. Husband and wife perched on the small stone bench directly below the tree, while Barhad lounged against the trunk, a half-finished book in his hands. Aglar's gaze went to the couple for the most part, concerned by the Lothlorien elf's presence but understanding why he was there. When Thranduil had told his eldest daughter that the family was meeting in Luineth's Garden, she had insisted that Lachon accompany her.The Elvenking allowed it, though the Crown Prince was more concerned by the addition to their little meeting. It was true that Hannel would most likely tell her husband about Esgal's identity, but having to tell another elf the truth would only make Legolas more uncomfortable and nervous. If Hannel was a stranger to the assassin, Lachon was even more so. All Aglar could hope for was that no one would react badly to the news. The last thing he— or anyone— wanted was for Legolas to run off. At that moment, Thranduil entered the Garden, followed by the silent Legolas. Hannel rose gracefully to her feet."Adar." she greeted, eyes sliding over Esgal before returning to her father. "You told the Royals to meet you here...?"Aglar could not read his sister well enough to tell whether the questioning in her tone was confused or irritated by the assassin's presence. She was using her politely diplomatic voice, which may or most definitely may not have been a good sign. Or perhaps the silver-haired elf was just looking too deeply into it."Indeed I did." Thranduil said, gesturing for her to sit back down.His blue eyes swept over the three on the ground before they flicked up to Aglar. The Crown Prince shrugged vaguely, silently urging his father on, before looking at Legolas and giving him an encouraging smile. The assassin's face revealed nothing, but at least his eyes were violet. Still, it was anyone's guess as to what the elf was hiding behind that blank mask...The Elvenking clasped his hands lightly in front of him, expression solemn. "I asked you to be here because there is something that I need to tell you. Something that I most likely should have told you the moment I found out. I will admit that I did not tell you this because I was afraid of how you would react. And I also did not because I was trying to protect..."He trailed off, glancing at the violet-eyed elf beside him. Aglar did as well, and noticed that Legolas's hands were clenched into fists, the knuckles turning white."Adar?" Hannel questioned, following his gaze. Her brow furrowed. "What are you talking about?"Thranduil opened his mouth, closed it, and seemed unable to force the words past his lips. Aglar knew how his father felt, his own heart aching. How did one tell their family that their lost member had been in front of them for years, that they had never noticed, that he was home and safe but so, so different that what they expected...?"Esgal is Legolas."Four heads turned sharply and eight eyes stared at Barhad in shock. The golden-haired Prince stood, book falling to the ground, and walked to the frozen Legolas with two strides. Without warning or words he wrapped his arms around the assassin and he held the youngest Prince tight, shoulders shaking as he clung to his brother like a lifeline."I have known who you are ever since you and Adar returned after those men took him, but I was so afraid to approach you." Barhad whispered, voice cracking as tears trailed down his face. "You did not have your memory, you still do not, but at least now you know you are my brother. Now you finally know— so I can— And you—" He broke off, his arms tightening around Legolas's shoulders. "I am so happy that you are safe, Little Leaf."Slowly, the assassin's arms rose and he returned Barhad's embrace with the same amount of ferocity as his brother."...Legolas?"Hannel's tone was bewildered, as if she had not clearly heard what had been said. Her blue eyes were wide and confused, making her seem much younger and more vulnerable. Barhad silently shifted away from Legolas as their sister stood, stumbling as she lost her footing. Lachon was there to catch her before she fell. Not even glancing at her husband, Hannel walked forward and halted in front of the one she knew as Esgal, eyes raking his face. Aglar knew what she was searching for. Features, connections, similarities, proof that Esgal the assassin was indeed Legolas the Lost Prince, their brother.The hair was right. The face shape was right. The eyes... were wrong, but at the same time could still be identified as Legolas's. When the assassin was not hiding it, his eyes shone with that same joy and emotion that the young elfling they had lost once had. Legolas may have lost his memories of his childhood, but parts of that innocent little elfling still lived on in the strong, soft-spoken assassin that they had come to know and love. The eldest Princess's hand shook as she reached up, gently caressing Legolas's face."I can see it now." she murmured. "It really is you."A tiny, hesitant smile broke through the violet-eyed elf's stoic mask. "Yes... It is. I do not have my memories back but yes... it is me."Hannel began to laugh, taking his face in both hands and gently kissing him on the forehead before pulling him into a desperate, joyful embrace. "You're home. You're here. Our Little Leaf..."Aglar leapt down from the tree, joining the huddle that surrounded the youngest Royal. Lachon was lingering at the edge and grinning like a fool, happy for his wife and her family. Arms interlocked and the five Royals joined together like a single unit with Legolas in the middle. The assassin looked unconcerned by all of the people hugging him, actually smiling and chuckling softly as he attempted to return each embrace.Finally Hannel pulled away, wiping her eyes unceremoniously with her sleeve. "I still cannot believe that you were here for all of these years.""I still cannot believe my family was in front of me for all that time." Legolas said. "I will admit that I had almost given up hope on finding my past or family, so maybe I was not searching as hard as I could have been...""The past is behind us," Thranduil interceded gently. "Do not be concerned about what has happened, only what is to come."The golden-haired Princess looked at her father, a frown darkening her features. "I suppose. But Adar, why did you not tell us about Legolas? Why did you not tell the Council or the people as well? Legolas is here. He's safe. The Lost Prince is no longer lost—""I did not tell you because Legolas was unaware of his heritage," the blue-eyed elf said. "After that, it was his decision when to tell you the truth. You do understand that he does not remember his childhood with us?""Yes." Hannel said, waving a hand as if brushing his concerns away. "I know that. But now that he knows he is the Lost Prince, and now that we know, surely others can be told?"She did not see Legolas tense. Aglar did."Hannel, no one else needs to know about Esgal's identity." the Crown Prince said hurriedly but calmly.His sister gave him a narrow-eyed look. "Of course they do. The people have every right to know that the Lost Prince is home!""This is not about rights, it is about needs." Aglar insisted. "Legolas needs—""People are terrified of the upcoming war and their morale has been ground into dust by the falls of Rivendell and Lothlorien." Hannel interrupted. "Hearing that Legolas has returned would bring up their spirits and give them hope again!""They have hope." Thranduil joined the increasingly-heated conversation. "The Sanctuary will continue to keep us safe from the Void, and once we find the Black Weapons and the other two Wielders we will be able to kill Iãgaw. Telling the people that Legolas is here would only make them fear more for your other three siblings, who are on a quest where we cannot reach them to tell them their brother is here, nor can we send anyone to bring them back.""I do not believe that." Hannel said, voice taut with anger. "Why are you being so insistent that no one know that the Lost Prince has returned?" She paused, eyes blazing like blue flames. "I still cannot believe that you let him wander where he pleased even after you knew! His past was completely hidden from him once, yes, but the point is that the Lost Prince knows who he is now. He cannot go off without warning to fight orcs! He needs to stay here where he is safe, where he can be protected! We should at least tell the Council—""No."The silence was so abrupt one may think Legolas had shouted. All eyes turned to the assassin, who met their gazes evenly. He looked... not angry, but more than a little irritated and upset."Now that you are all listening to me rather than talking about me... I have something to say." Legolas said evenly, no judgment in his tone. "No, I am not a Prince. Actually, no, I am not 'the Lost Prince'. I am not a title. I am not a legend whose coming should be announced to the masses to boost their morale. I am Esgal, an assassin, and simply Legolas, and that is all that I will be until my memories return and I decide what I am. You speak of rights and needs and wants, but what about what I want, need, and my right to decide? I am an assassin, trained and raised to kill, deceive, interrogate, and murder."More than one person flinched but the violet-eyed elf kept going. "I was not taught politics or how to run a country like the rest of you, and quite frankly I do not think I want to learn because that is not who I am. However, I know enough to see that I do not want the people or the Council to know about me. One Adviser who discovered my identity already took advantage of me, and I would rather not have a repeat of that incident."Aglar winced, having been informed of the full scope of Amon's cruelty soon after finding out about Esgal. If that Delorcion ever came back, the Crown Prince swore to end him before he got anywhere near his little brother."It may be selfish, but I will not reveal who I am to anyone before I know who the Lost Prince was. He is me, but at the same time I am not him. I cannot be, for my memories of that time in my life are out of my reach." His expression softened. "But even though I do not remember my early life, you are my family, and I love you all. You love me too, either for who I was or who I am now... but please, do not try to turn me into something I am not.""And another thing." Legolas continued in the longest time Aglar had ever heard him speak. "I do not need to stay where it is safe. And I do not 'wander' around. I travel where I please, yes, but that is a part of who I am. I love you but— I hate to say this, and I am sorry— I am not entirely comfortable in the Palace. I love the trees and the forest and— and freedom. Even after decades of coming to the stronghold I still cannot just stay here. And I will not stay here. Not when there are shadows to fight outside of the borders and the Black Weapons to find— One of which I must wield. I have survived this long, please trust me to keep surviving... Don't try to keep me here, because I will not be forced to remain here."There was a long beat of silence. Hannel's mouth moved wordlessly, shame overcoming her beautiful features, and Aglar felt a bit of sympathy for his sister... along with his own twinge of harrowing guilt. Three of the assassin's family members had been arguing about what to do with him without asking what he wanted to do, and that was enough to make the silver-haired Prince avert his gaze."I apologize for being so abrupt." Legolas murmured in his soft but easily-heard voice. "...But that is how I feel."They stood in uncomfortable silence."...I am sorry as well." Hannel was the first to speak, voice heavy and eyes dark. "I was not thinking before I spoke, or considering how you felt. It must have been shocking, to discover who you were.""Very." Legolas admitted. "I accepted that you were my family easily enough, but I am still having difficulty believing that I am a Prince in blood." His expression grew unreadable as he turned back to his sister. "...You won't tell anyone who I am, will you?"He sounded so uncertain then, and Aglar saw his sister's motherly instincts take over."No, I will not." she said softly. "You are the one most affected by this, so you should be the one to tell others... when you are ready. And I... I will try not to overprotect you." Her eyes saddened and she reached up, gently cupping his cheek. "You are an adult. A warrior. It is a little hard to accept when a part of me was expecting that same little elfling to come home. I do accept you though." The raw honesty and pain in her voice made Aglar feel like an unwanted intruder, despite the fact that he had every right to observe what was being said."Thank you." the assassin said sincerely, voice tinged with relief. He looked up, his gaze lingering on each of his family members, and smiled. "Thank you."Nothing more needed to be said.LOTRLOTRLOTRIt was dark.It was cold.He was... confused.Voices whispered around him, murmuring and fading like echoes bouncing off of cavern walls. He tried to turn, to see the sources of the whispers, but the world was too dark, and he was blind to all around him. He could not even tell if he was moving, or if he had a body at all. But surely he must. He must, in order to hear the voices, see the darkness, and feel the cold. He liked the cold and darkness, oddly enough. A part of him insisted that he should not, that he should wish for sunlight and warmth....What was sunlight? What was warmth?Hazy memories rose from the depths of his mind, blurred and distorted like he was viewing them through shattered, smoky glass. The sun was yellow, he recalled. The sun was warm and colorful and filled the world with light—Pain.A part of him hurt— his head?— and he cried out, his voice joining the other voices— screams— that sounded around him. Knives were stabbing into him, ripping and tearing through his vague and immobile body. He floundered in the blackness around him, wailing and crying, one voice lost in the storm. He was hurting and he did not know why and there was pain-pain-pain, why was he in pain? All he had done was think of the sun—The sun. The light. It had to be the sun's fault. Something deep within him cringed at the wrongness and irrationality of that thought, but every other part shouted that yes, it was the sun's fault he was in pain.He hated the sun. He cursed it and its warm rays of light which caused him pain from the mere thought of them. Who needed the sun? Who needed warmth? He would rather stay in the the dark and cold. The darkness was gentle, unlike the burning sun. It was soothing and soft, not blatant and achingly light. Yes, the sun and its light was wrong. The darkness was right. Who needed color when one could have blackness?Who needed light when one had a void?The pain stopped.He may have blinked. Or gasped. Or trembled for all he knew. The voices around him murmured, whispered, and cried but he ignored them. Something had changed. Something had... shifted. He turned his head and flinched when he realized he could feel it. He could feel that he was moving. He mulled over this new development, wondering how it had happened. The pain was gone, he could move a little, he could......see?He could see the sources of the voices. There were bodies around him, unidentifiable forms whose features were hidden by the darkness. If he squinted he could see a few occasionally twitch or tremble. Were they in pain like he had been? He tried to move his arms and sit up in order to see more of his surroundings, but quickly discovered he only had bodily control over his head. At least he could feel his body now, he supposed.He turned his head to the right, eyes struggling to see through the dark, and focused on a shape that was much taller than the bodies lying on the floor. Someone was standing, he surmised, and as if the figure was aware of his gaze, it turned. Red eyes glowed in the darkness, terrifying and tantalizing all at once. All other features were indecipherable, the figure as dark as the blackness in which it— he— stood."Well, well." The figure said in a voice was was both dark and charismatically smooth. "One of you is awake already. What a surprise."He stared at the other silently, only able to blink."And you were a man as well." The figure continued, delightfully fascinated. "I was certain that an elf would be the first to gain awareness..."The... man blinked again. That was right. He was of the Race of Men. He was a man. With this thought, other thoughts began to enter his consciousness, memories seeping into his muddled mind. Slowly the pieces clicked together, returning in a rush, and his eyes widened. He remembered. He remembered it all. But this was wrong, it was all wrong! He was not supposed to be here, in the dark that was wrong-right. He was not meant to return to this world. After all he had—Something flickered in the corner of his eye and he craned his neck, frowning when he saw nothing but blackness. He blinked, once, twice, squinting at what was apparently nothing. He could feel the red-eyed figure's curious eyes on him but he ignored the other, staring determinedly in the direction he had seen... something.He did not know how long he stared. It could have been hours, days, weeks. He did not move or acknowledge the other's presence, merely staring. And then, after an unknown period of time, he saw it again.A flicker of Light.The Light was beautiful.The Light was wonderful.The Light......he hated it.And then it vanished once more. He growled in frustration and twitched, struggling to sit up and move in the darkness. The Light. He needed to find the Light again. He needed to see it, follow it, hunt it down, and extinguish it. The figure watched him, expression mostly hidden by the blackness around him. He could see those red eyes glinting with amusement, though."And you surprise me yet again. You sense Lights, do you not? Ones you want to seek out and kill? Intriguing. It has been years since your death, and yet you still have a loved one to hunt down... Descendants, perhaps?"He stopped struggling and stared at the figure, going over the other's words in his mind. Loved one? Descendants? He did not have any descendants. His line had been brutally ended, he remembered that... right? He saw a flicker of color— violet?— in his mind's eye, and was startled by the rush of love-hate-joy-rage accompany it. No. He should not be feeling half those emotions. That was wrong. He should not hate the Light. He should not despise him. The Light was important, to be protected. The Light was—Again he felt a rush of hate and love, joy and rage. This time, however, it was accompanied by pain. He grimaced and jerked, unable to curl up like he wanted to. He tried to identify the cause of the agony this time, confusion and anger warring for dominance within him. His thoughts returned to the Light and he hissed.There was a smirk in the figure's voice. "You are confused and hurting. You must have been strong-willed if you are feeling so conflicted and are denying your new instincts. Let me help you clear your mind..." He leaned forward, over the one on the ground, and the man watched the figure with wary hazel eyes. "Those Lights you sense are the ones you left behind. And they are the reason for your pain." The figure had the man's full attention now. "They are the reason your heart hurts so greatly. As long as they exist, you will live on in agony. The only way to end your suffering, to end your pain, is to kill the Lights that make you suffer. Kill the Lights... and your pain will never return."He studied the figure, trying to see any sign of deception or farce, but the shadows cloaked any hidden truths he may have spotted. Still, the figure's words made sense. Thinking of the Lights, seeing it, and feeling it caused only pain. Take away the source, and surely the agony would leave? Yes. That had to be it. Destroy the Light, and there would be soothing darkness. There would be peace.The figure's glowing eyes seemed to grow brighter, lighting like crimson flames."Good. You have accepted your purpose." He chuckled, lightly touching the man's head. "Sleep and gain strength, my Shade. The war will begin soon."The figure left, vanishing into the darkness and leaving the man— the Shade?— behind. Hazel eyes turned once again to the last spot he had seen the Light. The Light that was his son. The Light that was his legacy. The Light he would destroy."Prince..."LOTRLOTRLOTRFinal A/N: Um... Cliffhanger ending for the win? Don't worry, book two will be up soon enough.Below are the answers to Frequently Asked Questions. Please skim through them, because while I love answering questions, answering the same ones repeatedly can be tiresome.What does your penname stand for?SkyleafAlchemist19. Sky as in Skywalker (Star Wars). Leaf as in Legolas Greenleaf (Lord of the Rings) and Village Hidden in the Leaves (Naruto). Alchemist as in Fullmetal Alchemist. 19 is the day of the month my birthday is on.Why are Legolas's eyes violet?There are multiple reasons. The first is that I wanted a color that was not natural and was unique, so that people who met "Esgal" would remember that feature first. They would think "Esgal, the elf with those bright/odd violet eyes" not "Esgal, the elf with that pale blonde hair— Wait a minute." The second reason has to do with Legolas's suppressed glow. In my head, the natural silver-blue (light, appears when his glow is not suppressed) is covered by red (shadow, the covering of his inner light) to make violet. The third reason his eyes are violet is because of the character he is partially inspired by, Drizzt Dor'Urden (I always feel like I am spelling that wrong). Long story short, Drizzt is a Dark Elf from the Forgotten Realms. There, all Dark Elves are pretty much born evil, except Drizzt. Drizzt was born "good", with violet eyes. This is special because all other Dark Elves have red eyes (and are born evil and sadistic, like I said). And the final reason is that I read somewhere that violet represents royalty.Speaking of Legolas's eyes... what's with the black?When Legolas's eyes turn black, he is in full-assassin mode. He has no emotions. He has no comrades. He has no loyalties. All that matters is completing his mission and killing his targets. Its an unintended side affect of his training and also a defense mechanism of sorts. When emotions become burdensome, overwhelming, or interfere with his mission, he goes into the assassin-mode mindset. I made Legolas's eyes turn black when he is in this mindset because he is literally suppressing any lingering inner light when he is like this. In other words, he is suppressing his emotions completely, and, by extension, his soul (Its a "The eyes are the windows to the soul" kind of thing). While like this, Legolas is like a calculated berserker, killing all who get in his way and doing anything to complete his mission. He is the cardboard cutout example of an emotionless assassin, and in this state he is at his deadliest, and his most dangerous. Is this going to be an issue in Book Two?... Maaaaayyyyybe.Why haven't we seen more about the Quest with your OCs (Legolas's siblings), or had more scenes with them in general?I am so happy most of you love my OCs. :D However, I try to limit their screen time because A) This is not their story, it is Legolas's, and B) I personally tend to skip over large sections with OC POV. The reason you have not seen more of them is because I like to do things from Legolas's POV as much as possible (It is his story. And Thranduil's, I guess) and he has not been around his siblings that much. I only did parts of the quest that showed some character development or had an important battle because of what I said above— I personally skip over OC sections if there are too many of them. An OC can be the best OC in the world, but sometimes people just can't care about or connect with them. Rather than have you skim over OC centric sections, I try to limit those sections as much as possible. However, I do plan on expanding on the OCs personalities (especially the villains and Questing Royals) in the sequel. Pretty much ATR has been a test run where I chuck scenes that are OC-centric at you before retreating a safe distance and observing your reactions. :PWhat made you choose to create a villain rather than use Sauron as the big baddie?Sauron did not fit what I needed for a villain. I had the idea of the Black Weapons early on, and I felt that Sauron and his Ring were too deeply set into canon to try to give him another weakness. Before I began posting, I was going to have the villain be Morgoth but ran into the same problem. I knew people would go "OMG Sauron/Morgoth doesn't have that power! D:" so I decided to make my own villain that no one could really compare to canon. I like freedom in my writing (as I have said many times before) and I found it more fun to create a villain almost from scratch based on pieces of Tolkien's work rather than struggle to fit my story into an universe where Sauron was the villain.What gave you the idea for the Chant/Sanctuary?Magic is a lot more 'obvious' and present in my version of Middle-earth. When I created a villain that could see through shadows, I knew I wanted to have a place that was protected and hidden from him. Of course I decided on Mirkwood, not only because its Legolas and Thranduil's home, but because the Woodland Realm always got the short end of the stick. They were 'antagonists' in The Hobbit, they were considered a lower class than the likes of Galadriel and Elrond, they did not have a Ring of Power to protect them, they had freaking giant Spiders, they had Darkness, and so on. I guess I wanted there to be a grand-scheme reason for their hardships. Why not have Mirkwood fulfill the requirements to become a Sanctuary against the Void? Also, I wanted to give Radagast a larger role as well.What's with the aura-sensing power/sixth sense?I love manga and anime. In many of them, there is a character who can sense chakra/chi/life energy/spirit energy/etc. I always found that to be very cool, and seeing as how elves always seemed to have a hint of such abilities, I decided to amplify it in a select few. Most elves can tell when a great Darkness is nearby (Darknesses other than Iãgaw, but I'll get to that later). A few can sense when orcs are nearby, but only a select couple can actually sense the flow of life-energy in living things. The version in ATR that Legolas and Elrohir has is a mix of the Dragon's Pulse sensing from Fullmetal Alchemist, the Force-sensing ability from Star Wars, and the ability to sense Spiritual Energy from Bleach. This ability is going to become very important in The Shadow War.Why does Legolas use his sixth sense to sense allies in battle?The short answer: because he is so used to fighting alone (it was him and Ciaran versus the world and Ciaran died early on). The long answer: He fought by himself for almost four hundred years. If he did not do the sensing-allies-thing, he could unintentionally turn and stab a comrade, or let a weapon pass by, only to strike a friend. The mentality that Ciaran (unintentionally) drilled into him was that he fought alone and would have no allies to fight beside him. As you've seen, Legolas has to constantly remind himself that he has friends fighting with him, or that the people he's fighting are allies he cannot kill. Killing is swift and easy for him, so holding back and remembering he has allies beside him is a pretty foreign concept to Legolas.What about Legolas's mental shield?My Middle-earth has a little more open magic than canon LOTR. The mental shield is a defense against the influences of telepaths, mind control, and Darkness. A part of Legolas's character is his rigid control over himself, both physically and mentally. Even when 'fully relaxed' he has guards up. He has to, because otherwise if someone startled him he'd kill them. Back to the shield, though. I did not want my assassin!Legolas to be one of those characters that struggles with their loyalty and struggles with inner Darkness. He needed to be fully Light, yet have a morality that not many understand. He may be deadly and kill without question, but his soul and mind needed to be Light and 'pure'. Growing up under Dol Guldur's powerful Darkness, he had to have mental protection from the fortress's influence, otherwise no amount of morality talks from Ciaran would keep him from becoming darkened, maybe even Shadowed. The mental shield protected him from that, and, as a result, took away his old memories.Why can't Legolas let out his inner light/release his mental shield?If Legolas lets out his inner light and releases his memories, he will not be able to suppress it again for a while. Another reason is that doing so will let out his memories full-force, which could make him lose all of his memories or go into a coma/shock. Legolas also thinks that if he lowers his shield, he will be vulnerable to Dark influences. That might not necessarily be true... but to say anything more would be spoiler-y. :PIs there going to be consequences for Legolas's momentarily releasing his glow to save Bilbo?See the last section. A certain someone can occasionally sense his inner Light/soul...Why does seeing certain things from his past hurt Legolas? Why didn't that happen in Part One?The unconsciousness that followed the Chant forced Legolas into the deepest part of his subconsciousness, where his mental shield is. When he saw his memories, he acknowledged/realized that they still existed. Before that, he thought that they were gone. Now he knew that they were there. He knew that they still existed. Because of this, whenever he saw something from his past, rather than get a "this feels familiar" feeling, his mind tried to retrieve the memories associated with that place/object/etc. However, his memories were still locked behind his mental shield and were not coming out. This pretty much causes Legolas's mind to fight itself, his subconsciousness trying to retrieve the memories while his shield tried to keep them trapped. That equals extreme headaches/pain. The reason people like his family and places like the Palace did not set this reaction off is because he had new memories to retrieve and associate with them.Why haven't we seen much of Gimli, Boromir, Arwen, Eowyn, etc? Like with the OCs I haven't shown much of those people because Legolas has not been around them. In the sequel, the number of POVs has to go up because there is going to be stuff happening in a lot of the realms, so you'll see more of them then. Plus a couple are obviously going to be in the Fellowship.Are Aragorn and Arwen in love?Yes, Arwen and Aragorn are together, but I have not even mentioned it because I just can't write romance. (Ew. Romance. :P)Is Eowyn going to have a Nazgûl to kill?Yes. There is going to be a lot more girl power in the sequel.Are we going to see more of the villains?Of course! Or are you asking about more stuff from their POVs? Yes, we will have villain POVs. Although I have introduced the three villains, I haven't really gotten into their characters and motivations yet. I just started with a basic underlying motivation to unite them: Revenge on those who wronged them. However, their characters and motivations go a lot deeper than that... Like I said, the underlying quest for revenge is just something to give them a common motivation.I might as well extend a little on the big three (Iãgaw, Riagán, and Amulug) here:One wants to play with the insignificant ants that inhabit the world before slowly and maliciously destroying it and them. He was trapped for years, and that angers him. That is why he does not hurry in destroying pieces of the world, even though he is capable of doing it. He wants his enemies to feel fear and suffer before they die. First he will kill and demolish the people that the Valar are so fond of, then he will rip them to shreds. Though at the current time he just might be waiting to see if there is a way to stop him...One wants revenge on a single man and will grimly work for the demon who has promised him that revenge. He lost his throne, his birthright, because of that man, and he will do anything to make him suffer for it. He only lives for the day that his sword slashes that Ranger's throat. He does not care about the big picture. The world can burn for all he cares. And so can he, after he gets his revenge.And one seeks to enforce his master's will, a will that has mostly overpowered his own. His master has opened his eyes and showed him the truth, that the Void is the true power of the world. His master is his Lord, the bringer of the end of an age, and he will do whatever it takes to see his Lord regain his rightful place and bring the universe back to what it was meant to be: an empty Void. However, trapped in the back of his mind, a piece of his old motivations remain...What gave you the idea for the Shadowed Elves/Fallen Elves?Pretty much the thought that "evil can be beautiful" is what started the idea. Why did bad guys have to be scarred or show their darkness on the outside? What if it came from within, and did not show until it was too late? The scene where the human villagers were so excited about beautiful immortal elves coming to their village, and the elves massacring them all, was one that I wanted to use for a while. Imagine admiring the beauty and wonder of the elves, to have them smiling at you and gracing you with their ethereal presence... only to have them start killing you and your friends. Scary image, isn't it?Another thing that influenced the Shadowed Elves in particular was the Mavericks/Irregulars from MegaMan X, with parts of the behaviors and the fact that once someone becomes a Shadowed Elf they cannot be saved, only terminated, being influenced by that series. I wanted this story to have that slight grittiness, where not every enemy is an orc or a faceless man you don't know. The elves will be fighting former friends, allies, and even family.Why did you give Legolas partial amnesia?I tried to think of a way around it, but could not do it. I needed Legolas to not remember his past or family, because if he did, most of the story would not have happened. If he had his memories, even if Legolas was too afraid to go back to his family, he would check up on them, intentionally watch them from the shadows, etc. There was no way that he could avoid meeting them face-to-face for almost five hundred years, and I needed to delay that meeting as long as I could. Legolas needed to be free, without real obligations to return and stay in Mirkwood. As you saw after he learned the truth (and even before that), Legolas felt like he had to stay in Mirkwood out of obligation to his family. He no longer feels like he can just wander and explore the world without a care anymore. I also had Legolas lose his memories because it gives him something to strive towards. He wants those memories back, but because they are trapped because of his mental shield, he cannot retrieve them just yet. That struggle to find himself and who he was is a part of his character, but not so overwhelming his characterization that it becomes cliché.Why did it take so long for Legolas, Thranduil, etc. to figure out Esgal was the Lost Prince?...Because originally Part One was eight chapters. It got extended to about twenty chapters. So take out about twelve chapters of part one and the first reveal was originally in chapter eighteen. Thanks for being patient about the reveal BTW. :)You do realize the number of enemies Legolas defeats at times are impossible right?Yeah, I know. I think I've managed to tone down the numbers a lot though. There are two reasons I did that: 1) I was absolutely sick of seeing Legolas being captured, beaten up, etc. and 2) I watch anime, where there are one vs five hundred people battles and the one person wins (That person is sometimes not a villain either). While I love Legolas-is-captured fanfics as much as the next person, I was really tired of him... not being weak, but losing to people who would usually be no problem for him. For once I wanted him to beat the h-ll out of a bunch of enemies. Maybe I was cheerfully overdoing it, but whatever. Like I said, I think I've managed to tone it done to more realistic numbers. :PWhy did the Witch-King die so easily?Originally I was going to have him escape to screech another day. In the original storyline, Legolas was going to be motivated to get the Black Arrows in order to use one to kill the Witch-King and I was going to have Legolas fight him in a "final battle". But then I realized that fight would distract the readers and characters from the battle against the villains I am establishing as the "Big Bads". I also realized that I did not want Legolas to be motivated to get the Weapons for personal revenge. That would be so cliché! So I decided to chuck the revenge-against-the-WK extended plotline out the window and kill the Witch-King way early. This not only lets me focus on my villains, but gave me a chance to show how much Iãgaw does not care about his minions. When he found out the WK was dead, he was more irritated and apathetic than anything.But that does not really answer the question. "Why did the Witch-King die so "easily"?"... because I watched Return of the King, re-read the chapters with Ciaran, and got p-ssed off at the d-mn Delorcion! You know that moment when a villain does something and you just want the Delorcion to DIE?! That's pretty much what happened. My exact thoughts were this: "Scr-w this Delocrion he is so going to die right now d-mn it! I don't care about writing a fight scene! Just DIE!"(Sorry for the cursing in the above section. That is how much the Witch-King angered me. :( )What is Iãgaw's 'gift' for the people of Middle-earth? What was he doing with that Shadowed Elf's soul?I'm still not answering this one. :P Hints are in the last section of this chapter.What are Iagaw's powers?Invincibility. Teleportation, control over shadows, and Sight through shadows. Able to drain the life-energy from living things around him. Telepathic communication with his servants. Filling the "void" in elves' grieving souls with his Darkness, making them Shadowed. Anything else I am not mentioning yet.Is there going to be any pairings/romance?Aragorn/Arwen might be mentioned, along with a couple other canon pairings. Maybe. Other than that, no. I don't write romance. (Ick)Is Legolas going to train/get an apprentice?No. And I'm not just talking about in this series. Legolas will never train anyone to be an assassin. Ever. Ciaran's teachings will die with him. (If he dies, that is.) This is because while Legolas gained "power" and proficiency in assassination that few can match, he will never pass or force that training onto someone else. He lost a lot in order to become what he is, and because of that he will never put anyone else through the training he went through. Even if he was put in the same situation as Ciaran, he would not pass on the man's teachings to another. He would do whatever it took to find another way out. You will most likely find out why in the sequel.Is there going to be a Fellowship?Yes, there will be an AU Fellowship featuring the members of the original Fellowship plus a few other canon characters. They will be formed in the first chapter of Book Two.A sincere thank you to everyone who reviewed, favorited, followed, and showed their support for this story! You are the ones who inspired me to keep writing. Seriously, over 1,800 reviews, over 700 favorites, and over 850 follows?! That's awesome! :D :D :DThe sequel will be up soon. Please put in your review if you want me to add an A/N "chapter" saying that The Shadow War has been posted.Please review!


********** Page 42 **********

The sequel is up! The first chapter of The Shadow War has been posted! Finally! :D Sorry it took so long, but life got in the way. Plus I couldn't figure out a summary for weeks. Stupid summary. :(In other news, I'm thinking about doing a series of All That Remains/The Shadow War oneshots to show "missing moments" from both stories. It will also include a couple "AU" scenarios for the story that did not end up in the final story. What do you guys think? Good idea?Onto something else... that is probably also important to some of you. A few people have asked more FAQs, so I'll just answer them here:Can I write a story inspired by All That Remains?Yes, as long as you give me credit for inspiring you, do not use my OCs, and do not make the story an "AU" of ATR. Please PM me saying that you are writing a story inspired by ATR. I will want to read it most likely. :) I also ask that these stories not be OC centric. You are free to write what you wish how you want to, but if I see a story based on mine with a Mary Sue/Gary Stu as a main character, I will cry. Literally....Yes, I have been traumatized by Mary Sues. Who hasn't been?Can I write a story in the All That Remains Universe?No. As I said above, I am writing "missing scenes" and will also be putting flashbacks in The Shadow War. I do not want people to write stories in the ATR Universe because it may conflict with the canon of my story.Will you read my story?It depends on what it is about, but I most likely will check it out if it is not all about romance. (Ew. Romance. :P)Can I use your OCs in my story?Please do not. They are my characters.Can I translate All That Remains into (insert foreign language here)?Yes, but please contact me directly through PM to ask. ATR is already being translated into French and Chinese.With all that over with, go read The Shadow War. The sequel to All That Remains is up! :D

